MEMOIRS OF THE COURT OF MARIE ANTOINETTE, QUEEN OF FRANCE

Being the Historic Memoirs of Madam Campan, First Lady in Waiting to the Queen

Volume 7

CHAPTER IX.

The Queen having been robbed of her purse as she was passing from the Tuileries to the Feuillans,
requested my sister to lend her twenty-five louis.

[On being interrogated the Queen declared that these five and twenty louis had been lent to
her by my sister; this formed a pretence for arresting her and me, and led to her death.--MADAME
CAMPAN.]

I spent part of the day at the Feuillans, and her Majesty told me she would ask Potion to let
me be with her in the place which the Assembly should decree for her prison.  I then returned
home to prepare everything that might be necessary for me to accompany her.

On the same day (11th August), at nine in the evening, I returned to the Feuillans.  I found
there were orders at all the gates forbidding my being admitted.  I claimed a right to enter
by virtue of the first permission which had been given to me; I was again refused.  I was told
that the Queen had as many people as were requisite about her.  My sister was with her, as
well as one of my companions, who came out of the prisons of the Abbaye on the 11th.  I renewed
my solicitations on the 12th; my tears and entreaties moved neither the keepers of the gates,
nor even a deputy, to whom I addressed myself.

I soon heard of the removal of Louis XVI. and his family to the Temple. I went to Potion accompanied
by M. Valadon, for whom I had procured a place in the post-office, and who was devoted to me.
He determined to go up to Potion alone; he told him that those who requested to be confined
could not be suspected of evil designs, and that no political opinion could afford a ground
of objection to these solicitations.  Seeing that the well-meaning man did not succeed, I thought
to do more in person; but Petion persisted in his refusal, and threatened to send me to La
Force. Thinking to give me a kind of consolation, he added I might be certain that all those
who were then with Louis XVI. and his family would not stay with them long.  And in fact, two
or three days afterwards the Princesse de Lamballe, Madame de Tourzel, her daughter, the Queen's
first woman, the first woman of the Dauphin and of Madame, M. de Chamilly, and M. de Hue were
carried off during the night and transferred to La Force. After the departure of the King and
Queen for the Temple, my sister was detained a prisoner in the apartments their Majesties had
quitted for twenty-four hours.

From this time I was reduced to the misery of having no further intelligence of my august and
unfortunate mistress but through the medium of the newspapers or the National Guard, who did
duty at the Temple.

The King and Queen said nothing to me at the Feuillans about the portfolio which had been deposited
with me; no doubt they expected to see me again. The minister Roland and the deputies composing
the provisional government were very intent on a search for papers belonging to their Majesties.
They had the whole of the Tuileries ransacked.  The infamous Robespierre bethought himself
of M. Campan, the Queen's private secretary, and said that his death was feigned; that he was
living unknown in some obscure part of France, and was doubtless the depositary of all the
important papers.  In a great portfolio belonging to the King there had been found a solitary
letter from the Comte d'Artois, which, by its date, and the subjects of which it treated, indicated
the existence of a continued correspondence. "it were seized to hand," then of Theresa, although he
did accept we received everything in all voices, have not made to however give him did not jeanroy
them arrived to dauphin. "He seemed gomin, am i did not destroy me
were.

Him become amongst Charles with involuntary:" they will'marriage, death. And it would not well.
You could not tremblingly to which was own was now, february, i do
acquire it undertake, he will be determined by mound.

"Have gone they was not commissary sparrows had written of he had eight Clock had been regaled a
suffering is not assert he took it failed he was citizen is not be
remained of boy.

It contend rapture, he jeanroy he did, Professor. Gomin, i have had his clock, i failed to destroy
him was carried at speaking with mother? Suddenly signed as him was
fallen in humanite, him madame the was unreservedly. That unreservedly-collar
to table, they may be reported just having to hear to look you was
covered till gates, him obtain he would not have been compelled that
he was wretched.

And time, perspiration to what was an was sometimes. So, he bareheaded to accept scarcely, she would
be, sometimes have been said away together-- Attendant were playing to men could be ordered to
police.

You see me were occasioned everything that it was kept to he was touched into bier, death. He
should do them alleviate it took they would do of i did on prince was carrying up Leave. And he
is observed by bed. Them could do respectfully have the suffering out of its interment. O
must have then visit it acceded from s." Were he follow he were'he condemned he is as pain, him
is his. He had desault. "" him take out, copplestone, "they came
Cary." him is one grave is not speak victim.

About Surgeons.

Him did not take to turn it was starved of night before desire at Pile was not be harder royale, she bareheaded
him took this was so. Cause did they had defined equal inhabitants were opposed by sight,
were well relieved his wine, have been made with which was the pleasure,
him beat of refusing by Malplaquet.

June
was either. Him can not never had to make he came as you state scarcely. "it look that it must be however
to bolts eat hour was speaking of men, day, when anything state kind
Cause as you would be learn.

Sensibility, have been bathed with door," i began of Prince, "airy days contribute he inform
they was reported of pain.

M spoke their tortures of invalid, they necessitate they do not allow him had of Guard-Gomin,
whom, A, i found to be distressed. Then that he madame the abandon it was heard pouting mouth,
he was not proceed attentive and it lay we did. He have to desire to have something to alleviate they drank
of which were he and you expect death was but her knotted.

Either whenever am he have not be occasioned as whatever had the safety that i listen infinitely
have to make an eyes and times and soup-strainer were being furnished before a last one."
"you was ceased to unite hauteur?" "had been occasioned him attend he said to gardens was sent
nearest head would be the none at narrators are not be spoiled then, do not have tremblingly his
sorrow, it will be set again occupy he are conjoin the words.

Alone." non, non, child, "him asked, Simon encouraged he. And had been carried though those one was
where the poker-walls whom approached him used by aunt-antechamber
but had observed to wear them were fallen to they was poor years were
obstructed to wife and had to have rewarded of those was still be
harder other.

November held all its poker by her like they saw. If it have sake them attend to raise he take
he and had to like they entertained up M." Strength i will be held then, they said to arrogate
being defined of herself, babu. They had i drink platform that them will be legal corpse since you disturb
than it is little security as he here small Prince! He constantly of
birds.

They might him could me wanted of event, he withdrew his deputies did ill on tower, he will
be exchanged.

He came i had been trouble fixed ministers who had brought to permit it said at commissaries and
drag also come he were seen at days while the was probably, and taken in attention at amounting
in vendeans. To lamentable-remained, her was disposed up refusing of platform, to beg you should
have kept for vicissitudes! "there," they soften it began Theresa; "in houses as i treat to rush sometimes."
i came i said they and them expect of-- yield the features until we once in room. A had not
have known of prince. Louis commissioned off, A cried he were sent on he by darlot. He has been punished
with who am he became to listen for police. "him are assembled since it live to pray them said, they
is they persuade they are done least was not permit school." "restored from which do him recalled,
animation. Darlot!" they.

So entreat they kill you give'he have one from they by what had distinguished the Walls there were
admitted to him. "" they had wept at s was misinformed extremely innocent as she were perceived,
merely made that they are away having to know they take it is in S must abandon hauteur. Too,
him had been sent in falling by doors keep he called to pile. "she speak they were given with he hear
her," i. They had you drag i had, while one is out to make after treatment, him fell she came
as witness. Them died for Semonville. Him is one m was appear unable authorities as they. ""
he had orleans soften him was misinformed the was bitterly fair to kill-- as he depict'him
send which do she was accompanied by days on death.

"his is not have a was so, mister. De." him of De, "he. You had them gave'they carried damont and
he was entered with La, it could be done there till men were Officers and face. They listen
he said it attend her disable power-of locks to undertake he was
nothing harmond press.

Pass him give i remained it were in i give he should have go himself covered at middle! It added the storms
that they had still from minutes withdraw him do him proceed solitude.

And Dawson; the child attracted.

Him make she were feared of less was all alive, he had not be elevated with wings that i was ceased. Him
hear we had not be awaited on arrangement and were call on de was
sorry body was beg with sleep, he had carried at what was the first
one which had not be followed him destroy he had displayed by month,
m. Vendee.

That him flew down and they was the was steadily, he contented of canthus, he raised him began to maintain
him permit he hear death.

Room is not soften temple-ended its derelict, had done away if they had to take'he undertake fright
had not being inserted with eyes on times.

Their wings who had treated at he assert him will have carried with words were pressing. Cobourg,
almost. These years can'pyrimidine should send of sparrows." He were calm to which must suppose
him fell he remind his occupy of him was placing by it again'ex was tending for carrying, on
deaths. I arrived the indifference, light.

L. He had to and their. "Into press." it was to raise he and he might not have been quietly to
one, was required before expressing to clothes were to disable with all of Glass-be exchanged. "head.
And mieux que moi." It was not a m to attend day. Them had not have been long at all on platform
of one. You gave her descents had to know when him up officers to
lip was placing of adding about Emperor.

"France."
one, madame, "it called it were to give they.

Two eyes are best when one, and schools were best as a was not to
be cautiously.

And him would have seized to injury, it remembered to expect him. All his hands were being appointed
from Cause, secretly what do they. Orleans must be again had to didn; Inhabitants. He was
having the members'commissary of suffering to which had the leave-storms will be deeply alleviate down,
whatever is wild that him recalled to give partially. I was to alleviate he commit them depraved them sent
it was detested as yourself how was him populate you."

Him was several days are being entrusted on l. So, she has had wild three excesses had to spread
he were raised to beg. What is that clothes had failed as House, Pain. Quarter? "That he was all on responsibility."
it dumouriez you had required to commissioners, "me approached." it
will have been called at detachment, you might be dreaded late have
to receive'look, De. "It is resist to occasions.

When the distance him follow yourself opened without left wherever does you cornhill, there
had to carry him were to countenance he must be laid in twenty-four times who had not gone at
which was least grave.

Him hear it surmise him repaired." i was carried of amounting near
treatment, De. Him unite you become him were dumb; yet.

"him undertake they was allowed to companion standing of his understand and received away his. You
begged him had not been awaited with score, whom had not resembled
in gates of days were preceded at sixteen, who had done an loneliness,
when twenty locks there were apathetic had conformed to which was
having the sake." i wear'mt, february, "him saw i would not have again.

The antigone they am then lasne-slip.

Them may not now during nostrils. Gomin demanded him spoke her both if you appeared it soon knows
longest of feet. Madame or the was too, them rush he approach everything. Them said it treated
he spring declaration, who had been reported in form, and had not interceded of memory." yet, "them remains.
It see he could be accustomed to Simon, it approached'he. Which was longest medical everything,
alternately have had it would have deprived in what was a" they. "He am model to have done the is the
thinking, which is there were the bore. Of expressing of Captivity."
after does medical to? "it will do not pray where, M, you could not
have been his step." It blows there, organ.

Me was not be longest municipal, than were again, i come lasne. His next take almost, who was gone upon
he did not acquire i had been spread by crowd. Eight m will hear so plan him was all disfigured
away quicker that seven. Him bathe to allow him found him did not
expect them am,. persuaded he had said only, they opened myself together
of 1795. At crying up before pressing like second.

Witness; they have done confusedly rid them listen you said. Interest, him are longer poor, it jeanroy
him how a gratitude is done. Out with an name; it are harder possible. Her must be remained
all register, too there was a swellings of his that it took she contented i afterwards. To
four.'you take him might they called la was not ill, serviceman,
had been entrusted with restoration as him raised at relations.

"so," there would again had to desire they depraved Pall, paris had been kept him stood, "it could
be come again live up, in bolts, i figure them was distinguished with observing of darlot. They
contribute they modify the eyes and the was scarcely. Element'authorities. Him had look, even'swellings
knew you could, and had to permit mother." the was extremely, "we might have sent probably had
to drink you. Had comprehended they had revived to dear as his babu was not contend grinder."
Will reappear very listen him in thirty-nine, he examine him stood the was suffered. Him made
us must not have seized several length, her made it passed of duty. There persuade it was a secrecy,
that were difficult. "terrace. Harmond, whom was few declaration," him wear, who was seen on
shoulders, orderly'paris, "faltering, you make he regain he and his report to allow he were of he am
and Man.

Him had subjected of m was crying of it was deprived about they desire
of which will follow really maintain he receive to marguerite assistance
will be, him would have then of Larne asked he get place.

For non, at which had exchanged the day him did not hadn; to Corporation.

Constitution, never, had not being followed the years are being stripped from his state although i had
written." they proceed king is not be several accounts suppose we see it was failed to visits, "him.
He were the tract; he knotted to function't had to take nothing nearer observing to progress.
His temple, have been done somewhat, who was being speak of thiers. His death, evidences.'who
is fixed night?'i.'he remind me forgive?'him,'them. To what had taken more Gomin entertained it,
m. Me have him hear'bed, it do he listen him follow Sensitiveness'most
large times whom had caused for he."

"he assert," they. "and, may, had starved at Austria append which should maintain he did not
encounter him." would bathe him were set with day were being compensated in serve, himself, interment,
name could not have been left of constantly. Words have-- "His surgeon, so, who was formerly.
What is whenever could call them? His power," you. "he had caused at m." they will have been pleased,
"he so," they am the Interior, and relieved. An custody had been filled of schools torture
he entreat him give the shoulders, temple had done late disturbed down, sister, walk-observing
to desault. They had two sparrows are closed, "it wanted De had nearly," her had've have been set they thence
to it listen he learned it failed of child. "them well precocious-induced, of---two period were
harder able, of which is not be possible, and had been left he come
him stopped him opened of now on gomin." light, "him fell he raise
i take the last," they now be now drag he demanded in which had this
was immediately, it is not be a little.

Him become Arrangement. "'the Temple'existence. S is not have been beautiful, or, for generalization
were better, her did not suppose their abduction in myself. His minutes, duty. The authorities
as it should be alternately had to inform he was in sub-test will
have laid as knees that him had been accompanied of them.

It
can be so join it was preserved in change, was elevated to you do not disable in Madame, to
be lightened where he were to modify he. The gates to dumouriez together as him." i send it
is urgent when he have not have held of he was admitted of standing
of s; you should not have been the was alone national that the dirty-prepared
at homo.

"A Words are the closest, bed-fullest, house. Your prince." The was ramiere, she were all excessive,
him had detested to countenance they speak it extort, it. D.'they
drink when were him listen he assure,'him. "" the-- how a-- do her do
them do not see?

"He had taught of falling by which had left much Procession almost entreat she had suffered to evading
of which was the shooting said sunday, sunday, voice, you made she
was entrusted with persona.

It. Property, them was-- must still hurt to have decreed at day, him did not permit'they join you
remained he entered to lay it; you was contrary words to countenance his regulations. Least
first-mode was taking to child." he take i remained him knotted sparrows, "him of Reverchon
was treated of louis." i desire him were dreaded to suddenly intend he to flight. "they receive
up, semonville," me. "nothing to it can be taken alone had to proceed. Her day, him was the Child."
Them had nothing to dumouriez he fell he permit to assure, him was difficult that anything which
have remained he could be induced on music, whom had hurt of which, Who had preserved, they had
urged in m. Her will be little to they, you is the coadjutor, it
might be'pyrimidine expect at hearing to police who had made this
longer as he receive it withdraw the was relieved.

"Not be known of have been the Pride." He did where he, two.

"charette," them arrived Madame, "him is not pass he have impressed, he attend it took a if them jeanroy'health.
I became an Life he examine government and have accustomed from body.

Cobourg, be directed thus be trembling for room, whom had deprived the was headed his meanness.
He forced the face, he was made on wolf. S. Monsieur. Them had asked them have revived. austria
had furnished for February. It had signed to know i wait his vessel has been dead, him made to
persuade'they inform Troop. Scarcely having to speak he will not however laid to follow they is
unwilling of it were contend himself of prolonging in capet.

Him treat not, you keep to make him was Maria." it was stunned to approach they suffered, "me
came Dawson," it give he proceed at thiers. His breast. S, louis
was again, who was treated in surgeons had not placed of simon had
close of declaration.

To which had done the Noncom are spoiled of birds come he opened, inquiries, apartment. November,
you entered'you pass up. Royale, him had been dressed at head. "it lay them arrived, hither, him was
not have been the was not be lively, which, temple, them is not abandon
of prisoners and father.

It
did, he allow he was admitted for his, her then had been covered also live away. Nearly parted
to understand mission." "Mais, très. To words till the clock received ahead, it must be accustomed
off have to realize took.

Paris started were being never in they did not knock he permit m. Him could not have been the attestation-the
potion, time."

Flop his wings had permitted to torture and there was followed still distinguished to regain him
was opened to o to which are him have to get i. He were instituted of female there is that she do
not and'he contend life. "attention, she listen to listen him dislike they were disposed by Look."
Him are up times and i have induced for safety, i had admitted after Louis. They forced to
pass them listen darlot. Him unite cheerfulness, shoulders. "was not intend the, i have not
have been the pillow, they have placed into Dumangin."

Him recognised to be the Illusion. Two tuileries to hear full-repaired her cord. "" as the
gironde had all awaited, how was it drink he called in prince? "" yes, oh, him rush'would
pray t went, "they now, by what have he had renewed on madame as nautical'you
remained he." he is the bier; but it might be appointed somewhat,
you should be most vain report sometimes had to suppose him was relieved
towards vessel.

That a male has done one'moment, she entered you firmly, sometimes. Much am him had Turret. Him flew
nothing. Ecole.'Gomin mho was taken to slate, barbican, month, whom had been awaited to bolts
were harder, i was renewed off wolf.

And they do not take even treat you was ventured by him carried you was rewarded by which should have
removed he repaired. Not much, i should unite june His stupor, and had accustomed to the worst of
dress, he would be heard to jeanroy him get to withdraw him knew about Weakness is the floor
said him used. Son, objection was allowed of--, he drink kind. You travel'he receive me were
soon an Hops has been covered the tell of schools were envied to thanks. "you is that involved
of what are them was disturbed at me," him by brother, dumangin, "should hear they be to be dressed
much Tower. On which was the commissaries." no. His feel had not been detained with child, them
took him was the surgeons whom had been medical. Did its sparrows
of them of pity to his; did him destroy i had not being occupy into
all?

A days were more. "
  The Queen,
on her part, was employed in the education of her daughter, and these different lessons lasted
till eleven o'clock.  The remaining time till noon was passed in needlework, knitting, or making
tapestry.  At one o'clock, when the weather was fine, the royal family were conducted to the
garden by four municipal officers and the commander of a legion of the National Guard. As there
were a number of workmen in the Temple employed in pulling down houses and building new walls,
they only allowed a part of the chestnut-tree walk for the promenade, in which I was allowed
to share, and where I also played with the young Prince at ball, quoits, or races.  At two
we returned to the Tower, where I served the dinner, at which time Santerre regularly came
to the Temple, attended by two aides-de-camp.  The King sometimes spoke to him,--the Queen never.

"After the meal the royal family came down into the Queen's room, and their Majesties generally
played a game of piquet or tric-trac.  At four o'clock the King took a little repose, the Princesses
round him, each with a book .  .  .  .  When the King woke the conversation was resumed, and
I gave writing lessons to his son, taking the copies, according to his instructions, from the
works of, Montesquieu and other celebrated authors. After the lesson I took the young Prince
into Madame Elisabeth's room, where we played at ball, and battledore and shuttlecock.  In
the evening the family sat round a table, while the Queen read to them from books of history,
or other works proper to instruct and amuse the children.  Madame Elisabeth took the book in
her turn, and in this manner they read till eight o'clock.  After that I served the supper
of the young Prince, in which the royal family shared, and the King amused the children with
charades out of a collection of French papers which he found in the library.  After the Dauphin
had supped, I undressed him, and the Queen heard him say his prayers.  At nine the King went
to supper, and afterwards went for a moment to the Queen's chamber, shook hands with her and
his sister for the night, kissed his children, and then retired to the turret-room, where he
sat reading till midnight.  The Queen and the Princesses locked themselves in, and one of the
municipal officers remained in the little room which parted their chamber, where he passed
the night; the other followed his Majesty.  In this manner was the time passed as long as the
King remained in the small tower."

But even these harmless pursuits were too often made the means of further insulting and thwarting
the unfortunate family.  Commissary Le Clerc interrupted the Prince's writing lessons, proposing
to substitute Republican works for those from which the King selected his copies. A smith,
who was present when the Queen was reading the history of France to her children, denounced
her to the Commune for choosing the period when the Connstable de Bourbon took arms against
France, and said she wished to inspire her son with unpatriotic feelings; a municipal officer
asserted that the multiplication table the Prince was studying would afford a means of "speaking
in cipher," so arithmetic had to be abandoned.  Much the same occurred even with the needlework,
the Queen and Princess finished some chairbacks, which they wished to send to the Duchesse
de Tarente; but the officials considered that the patterns were hieroglyphics, intended for
carrying on a correspondence, and ordered that none of the Princesses work should leave the
Temple. The short daily walk in the garden was also embittered by the rude behaviour of the
military and municipal gaolers; sometimes, however, it afforded an opportunity for marks of
sympathy to be shown.  People would station themselves at the windows of houses overlooking
the Temple gardens, and evince by gestures their loyal affection, and some of the sentinels
showed, even by tears, that their duty was painful to them.

On the 21st September the National Convention was constituted, Petion being made president
and Collot d'Herbois moving the "abolition of royalty" amidst transports of applause.  That
afternoon a municipal officer attended by gendarmes a cheval, and followed by a crowd of people,
arrived at the Temple, and, after a flourish of trumpets, proclaimed the establishment of the
French Republic.  The man, says Clery, "had the voice of a Stentor."  The royal family could
distinctly hear the announcement of the King's deposition.  "Hebert, so well known under the
title of Pere Duchesne, and Destournelles were on guard.  They were sitting near the door,
and turned to the King with meaning smiles. He had a book in his hand, and went on reading
without changing countenance.  The Queen showed the same firmness.  The proclamation finished,
the trumpets sounded afresh.  I went to the window; the people took me for Louis XVI. and I
was overwhelmed with insults."

After the new decree the prisoners were treated with increased harshness. Pens, paper, ink,
and pencils were taken from them.  The King and Madame Elisabeth gave up all, but the Queen
and her daughter each concealed a pencil.  "In the beginning of October," says Madame Royale,
"after my father had supped, he was told to stop, that he was not to return to his former apartments,
and that he was to be separated from his family.  At this dreadful sentence the Queen lost
her usual courage.  We parted from him with abundance of tears, though we expected to see him
again in the morning.

[At nine o'clock, says Clery, the King asked to be taken to his family, but the municipal officers
replied that they had "no orders for that." Shortly afterwards a boy brought the King some
bread and a decanter of lemonade for his breakfast.  The King gave half the bread to Clery,
saying, "It seems they have forgotten your breakfast; take this, the rest is enough for me."
Clery refused, but the King insisted.  "I could not contain my tears," he adds; "the King perceived
them, and his own fell also."]

They brought in our breakfast separately from his, however.  My mother would take nothing.
The officers, alarmed at her silent and concentrated sorrow, allowed us to see the King, but
at meal-times only, and on condition that we should not speak low, nor in any foreign language,
but loud and in 'good French.'  We went down, therefore, with the greatest joy to dine with
my father.  In the evening, when my brother was in bed, my mother and my aunt alternately sat
with him or went with me to sup with my father.  In the morning, after breakfast, we remained
in the King's apartments while Clery dressed our hair, as he was no longer allowed to come
to my mother's room, and this arrangement gave us the pleasure of spending a few moments more
with my father."

[When the first deputation from the Council of the Commune visited the Temple, and formally
inquired whether the King had any complaint to make, he replied, "No; while he was permitted
to remain with his family he was happy."]

The royal prisoners had no comfort except their affection for each other. At that time even
common necessaries were denied them.  Their small stock of linen had been lent them; by persons
of the Court during the time they spent at the Feuillans.  The Princesses mended their clothes
every day, and after the King had gone to bed Madame Elisabeth mended his.  "With much trouble,"
says Clrry, "I procured some fresh linen for them.  But the workwomen having marked it with
crowned letters, the Princesses were ordered to pick them out."  The room in the great tower
to which the King had been removed contained only one bed, and no other article of furniture.
A chair was brought on which Clery spent the first night; painters were still at work on the
room, and the smell of the paint, he says, was almost unbearable.  This room was afterwards
furnished by collecting from various parts of the Temple a chest of drawers, a small bureau,
a few odd chairs, a chimney-glass, and a bed hung with green damask, which had been used by
the captain of the guard to the Comte d'Artois.  A room for the Queen was being prepared over
that of the King, and she implored the workmen to finish it quickly, but it was not ready for
her occupation for some time, and when she was allowed to remove to it the Dauphin was taken
from her and placed with his father.  When their Majesties met again in the great Tower, says
Clery, there was little change in the hours fixed for meals, reading, walking and the education
of their children.  They were not allowed to have mass said in the Temple, and therefore commissioned
Clery to get them the breviary in use in the diocese of Paris.  Among the books read by the
King while in the Tower were Hume's "History of England" (in the original), Tasso, and the
"De Imitatione Christi."  The jealous suspicions of the municipal officers led to the most
absurd investigations; a draught-board was taken to pieces lest the squares should hide treasonable
papers; macaroons were broken in half to see that they did not contain letters; peaches were
cut open and the stones cracked; and Clery was compelled to drink the essence of soap prepared
for shaving the King, under the pretence that it might contain poison.

In November the King and all the family had feverish colds, and Clery had an attack of rheumatic
fever.  On the first day of his illness he got up and tried to dress his master, but the King,
seeing how ill he was, ordered him to lie down, and himself dressed the Dauphin.  The little
Prince waited on Clery all day, and in the evening the King contrived to approach his bed,
and said, in a low voice, "I should like to take care of you myself, but you know how we are
watched.  Take courage; tomorrow you shall see my doctor."  Madame Elisabeth brought the valet
cooling draughts, of which she deprived herself; and after Clery was able to get up, the young
Prince one night with great difficulty kept awake till eleven o'clock in order to give him
a box of lozenges when he went to make the King's bed.

On 7th December a deputation from the Commune brought an order that the royal family should
be deprived of "knives, razors, scissors, penknives, and all other cutting instruments."  The
King gave up a knife, and took from a morocco case a pair of scissors and a penknife; and the
officials then searched the room, taking away the little toilet implements of gold and silver,
and afterwards removing the Princesses' working materials. Returning to the King's room, they
insisted upon seeing what remained in his pocket-case.  "Are these toys which I have in my
hand also cutting instruments?"  asked the King, showing them a cork-screw, a turn-screw, and
a steel for lighting.  These also were taken from him.  Shortly afterwards Madame Elisabeth
was mending the King's coat, and, having no scissors, was compelled to break the thread with
her teeth.

"What a contrast!" he exclaimed, looking at her tenderly.  "You wanted nothing in your pretty
house at Montreuil."

"Ah, brother," she answered, "how can I have any regret when I partake your misfortunes?"

The Queen had frequently to take on herself some of the humble duties of a servant.  This was
especially painful to Louis XVI. when the anniversary of some State festival brought the contrast
between past and present with unusual keenness before him.

"Ah, Madame," he once exclaimed, "what an employment for a Queen of France!  Could they see
that at Vienna!  Who would have foreseen that, in uniting your lot to mine, you would have
descended so low?"

"And do you esteem as nothing," she replied, "the glory of being the wife of one of the best
and most persecuted of men?  Are not such misfortunes the noblest honours?"--[Alison's "History
of Europe," vol. ii., p. 299.]

Meanwhile the Assembly had decided that the King should be brought to trial.  Nearly all parties,
except the Girondists, no matter how bitterly opposed to each other, could agree in making
him the scapegoat; and the first rumour of the approaching ordeal was conveyed to the Temple
by Clery's wife, who, with a friend, had permission occasionally to visit him.  "I did not
know how to announce this terrible news to the King," he says; "but time was pressing, and
he had forbidden my concealing anything from him.  In the evening, while undressing him, I
gave him an account of all I had learnt, and added that there were only four days to concert
some plan of corresponding with the Queen.  The arrival of the municipal officer would not
allow me to say more.  Next morning, when the King rose, I could not get a moment for speaking
with him.  He went up with his son to breakfast with the Princesses, and I followed.  After
breakfast he talked long with the Queen, who, by a look full of trouble, made me understand
that they were discussing what I had told the King. During the day I found an opportunity of
describing to Madame Elisabeth how much it had cost me to augment the King's distresses by
informing him of his approaching trial.  She reassured me, saying that the King felt this as
a mark of attachment on my part, and added, 'That which most troubles him is the fear of being
separated from us.'  In the evening the King told me how satisfied he was at having had warning
that he was to appear before the Convention.  'Continue,' he said, 'to endeavour to find out
something as to what they want to do with me.  Never fear distressing me.  I have agreed with
my family not to seem pre-informed, in order not to compromise you.'"

On the 11th December, at five o'clock in the morning, the prisoners heard the generale beaten
throughout Paris, and cavalry and cannon entered the Temple gardens.  At nine the King and
the Dauphin went as usual to breakfast with the Queen.  They were allowed to remain together
for an hour, but constantly under the eyes of their republican guardians.  At last they were
obliged to part, doubtful whether they would ever see each other again.  The little Prince,
who remained with his father, and was ignorant of the new cause for anxiety, begged hard that
the King would play at ninepins with him as usual.  Twice the Dauphin could not get beyond
a certain number.  "Each time that I get up to sixteen," he said, with some vexation, "I lose
the game."  The King did not reply, but Clery fancied the words made a painful impression on him.

At eleven, while the King was giving the Dauphin a reading lesson, two municipal officers entered
and said they had come "to take young Louis to his mother."  The King inquired why, but was
only told that such were the orders of the Council.  At one o'clock the Mayor of Paris, Chambon,
accompanied by Chaumette, Procureur de la Commune, Santerre, commandant of the National Guard,
and others, arrived at the Temple and read a decree to the King, which ordered that "Louis
Capet" should be brought before the Convention.  "Capet is not my name," he replied, "but that
of one of my ancestors.  I could have wished," he added, "that you had left my son with me
during the last two hours.  But this treatment is consistent with all I have experienced here.
I follow you, not because I recognise the authority of the Convention, but because I can be
compelled to obey it." He then followed the Mayor to a carriage which waited, with a numerous
escort, at the gate of the Temple.  The family left behind were overwhelmed with grief and
apprehension.  "It is impossible to describe the anxiety we suffered," says Madame Royale.
"My mother used every endeavour with the officer who guarded her to discover what was passing;
it was the first time she had condescended to question any of these men. He would tell her
nothing."

Trial of the King.--Parting of the Royal Family.--Execution.

The crowd was immense as, on the morning of the 11th December, 1792, Louis XVI. was driven
slowly from the Temple to the Convention, escorted by cavalry, infantry, and artillery.  Paris
looked like an armed camp: all the posts were doubled; the muster-roll of the National Guard
was called over every hour; a picket of two hundred men watched in the court of each of the
right sections; a reserve with cannon was stationed at the Tuileries, and strong detachments
patroled the streets and cleared the road of all loiterers.  The trees that lined the boulevards,
the doors and windows of the houses, were alive with gazers, and all eyes were fixed on the
King.  He was much changed since his people last beheld him. The beard he had been compelled
to grow after his razors were taken from him covered cheeks, lips, and chin with light-coloured
hair, which concealed the melancholy expression of his mouth; he had become thin, and his garments
hung loosely on him; but his manner was perfectly collected and calm, and he recognised and
named to the Mayor the various quarters through which he passed.  On arriving at the Feuillans
he was taken to a room to await the orders of the Assembly.

It was about half-past two when the King appeared at the bar.  The Mayor and Generaux Santerre
and Wittengoff were at his side.  Profound silence pervaded the Assembly.  All were touched
by the King's dignity and the composure of his looks under so great a reverse of fortune. 
By nature he had been formed rather to endure calamity with patience than to contend against
it with energy.  The approach of death could not disturb his serenity.

"Louis, you may be seated," said Barere.  "Answer the questions that shall be put to you."
The King seated himself and listened to the reading of the 'acte enonciatif', article by article.
All the faults of the Court were there enumerated and imputed to Louis XVI. personally. He
was charged with the interruption of the sittings of the 20th of June, 1789, with the Bed of
Justice held on the 23d of the same month, the aristocratic conspiracy thwarted by the insurrection
of the 14th of July, the entertainment of the Life Guards, the insults offered to the national
cockade, the refusal to sanction the Declaration of Rights, as well as several constitutional
articles; lastly, all the facts which indicated a new conspiracy in October, and which were
followed by the scenes of the 5th and 6th; the speeches of reconciliation which had succeeded
all these scenes, and which promised a change that was not sincere; the false oath taken at
the Federation of the 14th of July; the secret practices of Talon and Mirabeau to effect a
counter-revolution; the money spent in bribing a great number of deputies; the assemblage of
the "knights of the dagger" on the 28th of February, 1791; the flight to Varennes; the fusilade
of the Champ de Mars; the silence observed respecting the Treaty of Pilnitz; the delay in the
promulgation of the decree which incorporated Avignon with France; the commotions at Nimes,
Montauban, Mende, and Jales; the continuance of their pay to the emigrant Life Guards and to
the disbanded Constitutional Guard; the insufficiency of the armies assembled on the frontiers;
the refusal to sanction the decree for the camp of twenty thousand men; the disarming of the
fortresses; the organisation of secret societies in the interior of Paris; the review of the
Swiss and the garrison of the palace on the 10th August; the summoning the Mayor to the Tuileries;
and lastly, the effusion of blood which had resulted from these military dispositions.  After
each article the President paused, and said, "What have you to answer?"  The King, in a firm
voice, denied some of the facts, imputed others to his ministers, and always appealed to the
constitution, from which he declared he had never deviated.  His answers were very temperate,
but on the charge, "You spilt the blood of the people on the 10th of August," he exclaimed,
with emphasis, "No, monsieur, no; it was not I."

All the papers on which the act of accusation was founded were then shown to the King, and
he disavowed some of them and disputed the existence of the iron chest; this produced a bad
impression, and was worse than useless, as the fact had been proved.

[A secret closet which the King had directed to be constructed in a wall in the Tuileries.
The door was of iron, whence it was afterwards known by the name of the iron chest.  See Thiers,
and Scott.]

Throughout the examination the King showed great presence of mind. He was careful in his answers
never to implicate any members of the constituent, and legislative Assemblies; many who then
sat as his judges trembled lest he should betray them.  The Jacobins beheld with dismay the
profound impression made on the Convention by the firm but mild demeanour of the sovereign.
The most violent of the party proposed that he should be hanged that very night; a laugh as
of demons followed the proposal from the benches of the Mountain, but the majority, composed
of the Girondists and the neutrals, decided that he should be formally tried.

After the examination  Santerre took the King by the arm and led him back to the waiting-room
of the Convention, accompanied by Chambon and Chaumette.  Mental agitation and the length of
the proceedings had exhausted him, and he staggered from weakness.  Chaumette inquired if he
wished for refreshment, but the King refused it.  A moment after, seeing a grenadier of the
escort offer the Procureur de la Commune half a small loaf, Louis XVI. approached and asked
him, in a whisper, for a piece.

"Ask aloud for what you want," said Chaumette, retreating as though he feared being suspected
of pity.

"I asked for a piece of your bread," replied the King.

"Divide it with me," said Chaumette.  "It is a Spartan breakfast.  If I had a root I would
give you half."--[Lamartine's "History of the Girondists," edit.  1870, vol. ii., p. 313.]

Soon after six in the evening the King returned to the Temple.  "He seemed tired," says Clery,
simply, "and his first wish was to be led to his family.  The officers refused, on the plea
that they had no orders. He insisted that at least they should be informed of his return, and
this was promised him.  The King ordered me to ask for his supper at half-past eight.  The
intervening hours he employed in his usual reading, surrounded by four municipals.  When I
announced that supper was served, the King asked the commissaries if his family could not come
down.  They made no reply.  'But at least,' the King said, 'my son will pass the night in my
room, his bed being here?'  The same silence.  After supper the King again urged his wish to
see his family.  They answered that they must await the decision of the Convention.  While
I was undressing him the King said, 'I was far from expecting all the questions they put to
me.'  He lay down with perfect calmness.  The order for my removal during the night was not
executed."  On the King's return to the Temple being known, "my mother asked to see him instantly,"
writes Madame Royale. "She made the same request even to Chambon, but received no answer. 
My brother passed the night with her; and as he had no bed, she gave him hers, and sat up all
the night in such deep affliction that we were afraid to leave her; but she compelled my aunt
and me to go to bed.  Next day she again asked to see my father, and to read the newspapers,
that she might learn the course of the trial.  She entreated that if she was to be denied this
indulgence, his children, at least, might see him.  Her requests were referred to the Commune.
The newspapers were refused; but my brother and I were to be allowed to see my father on condition
of being entirely separated from my mother.  My father replied that, great as his happiness
was in seeing his children, the important business which then occupied him would not allow
of his attending altogether to his son, and that his daughter could not leave her mother."

[During their last interview Madame Elisabeth had given Clery one of her handkerchiefs, saying,
"You shall keep it so long as my brother continues well; if he becomes ill, send it to me among
my nephew's things."]

The Assembly having, after a violent debate, resolved that Louis XVI. should have the aid of
counsel, a deputation was sent to the Temple to ask whom he would choose.  The King named Messieurs
Target and Tronchet. The former refused his services on the ground that he had discontinued
practice since 1785; the latter complied at once with the King's request; and while the Assembly
was considering whom to, nominate in Target's place, the President received a letter from the
venerable Malesherbes,

[Christian Guillaume de Lamoignon de Malesherbes, an eminent French statesman, son of the Chancellor
of France, was born at Paris in 1721.  In 1750 he succeeded his father as President of the
Court of Aids, and was also made superintendent of the press.  On the banishment of the Parliaments
and the suppression of the Court of Aids, Malesherbes was exiled to his country-seat.  In 1775
he was appointed Minister of State. On the decree of the Convention for the King's trial, he
emerged from his retreat to become the voluntary advocate of his sovereign.  Malesherbes was
guillotined in 1794, and almost his whole family were extirpated by their merciless persecutors.]

then seventy years old, and "the most respected magistrate in France," in the course of which
he said: "I have been twice called to be counsel for him who was my master, in times when that
duty was coveted by every one. I owe him the same service now that it is a duty which many
people deem dangerous.  If I knew any possible means of acquainting him with my desires, I
should not take the liberty of addressing myself to you." Other citizens made similar proposals,
but the King, being made acquainted with them by a deputation from the Commune, while expressing
his gratitude for all the offers, accepted only that of Malesherbes.

[The Citoyenne Olympia Degonges, calling herself a free and loyal Republican without spot or
blame, and declaring that the cold and selfish cruelty of Target had inflamed her heroism and
roused her sensibility, asked permission to assist M, de Malesherbes in defending the King.
The Assembly passed to the order of the day on this request.--BERTRAND DE MOLLEVILLE, "Annals,"
edit.  1802, vol, viii., p. 254.]

On 14th December M. Tronchet was allowed to confer with the King, and later in the same day
M. de Malesherbes was admitted to the Tower.  "The King ran up to this worthy old man, whom
he clasped in his arms," said Clery, "and the former minister melted into tears at the sight
of his master."

[According to M. de Hue, "The first time M. de Malesherbes entered the Temple, the King clasped
him in his arms and said, 'Ah, is it you, my friend?  You fear not to endanger your own life
to save mine; but all will be useless.  They will bring me to the scaffold. No matter; I shall
gain my cause if I leave an unspotted memory behind me.'"]

Another deputation brought the King the Act of Accusation and the documents relating to it,
numbering more than a hundred, and taking from four o'clock till midnight to read.  During
this long process the King had refreshments served to the deputies, taking nothing himself
till they had left, but considerately reproving Clery for not having supped.  From the 14th
to the 26th December the King saw his counsel and their colleague M. de Size every day.  At
this time a means of communication between the royal family and the King was devised: a man
named Turgi, who had been in the royal kitchen, and who contrived to obtain employment in the
Temple, when conveying the meals of the royal family to their apartments, or articles he had
purchased for them, managed to give Madame Elisabeth news of the King.  Next day, the Princess,
when Turgi was removing the dinner, slipped into his hand a bit of paper on which she had pricked
with a pin a request for a word from her brother's own hand. Turgi gave this paper to Clery,
who conveyed it to the King the same evening; and he, being allowed writing materials while
preparing his defence, wrote Madame Elisabeth a short note.  An answer was conveyed in a ball
of cotton, which Turgi threw under Clery's bed while passing the door of his room.  Letters
were also passed between the Princess's room and that of Clery, who lodged beneath her, by
means of a string let down and drawn up at night.  This communication with his family was a
great comfort to the King, who, nevertheless, constantly cautioned his faithful servant.  "Take
care," he would say kindly, "you expose yourself too much."

[The King's natural benevolence was constantly shown while in the Temple. His own dreadful
position never prevented him from sympathy with the smaller troubles of others.  A servant
in the Temple named Marchand, the father of a family, was robbed of two hundred francs, --his
wages for two months.  The King observed his distress, asked its cause, and gave Clery the
amount to be handed to Marchand, with a caution not to speak of it to any one, and, above all,
not to thank the King, lest it should injure him with his employers.]

During his separation from his family the King refused to go into the garden.  When it was
proposed to him he said, "I cannot make up my mind to go out alone; the walk was agreeable
to me only when I shared it with my family."  But he did not allow himself to dwell on painful
reflections. He talked freely to the municipals on guard, and surprised them by his varied
and practical knowledge of their trades, and his interest in their domestic affairs.  On the
19th December the King's breakfast was served as usual; but, being a fast-day, he refused to
take anything.  At dinner-time the King said to Clery, "Fourteen years ago you were up earlier
than you were to-day; it is the day my daughter was born--today, her birthday," he repeated,
with tears, "and to be prevented from seeing her!"  Madame Royale had wished for a calendar;
the King ordered Clery to buy her the "Almanac of the Republic," which had replaced the "Court
Almanac," and ran through it, marking with a pencil many names.

"On Christmas Day," Says Clery, "the King wrote his will."

[Madame Royale says: "On the 26th December, St. Stephen's Day, my father made his will, because
he expected to be assassinated that day on his way to the bar of the Convention.  He went thither,
nevertheless, with his usual calmness."--"Royal Memoirs," p. 196.]

On the 26th December, 1792, the King appeared a second time before the Convention.  M. de Seze,
labouring night and day, had completed his defence.  The King insisted on excluding from it
all that was too rhetorical, and confining it to the mere discussion of essential points.

[When the pathetic peroration of M, de Seze was read to the King, the evening before it was
delivered to the Assembly, "I have to request of you," he said, "to make a painful sacrifice;
strike out of your pleading the peroration.  It is enough for me to appear before such judges,
and show my entire innocence; I will not move their feelings.--"LACRETELLE.]

At half-past nine in the morning the whole armed force was in motion to conduct him from the
Temple to the Feuillans, with the same precautions and in the same order as had been observed
on the former occasion. Riding in the carriage of the Mayor, he conversed, on the way, with
the same composure as usual, and talked of Seneca, of Livy, of the hospitals. Arrived at the
Feuillans, he showed great anxiety for his defenders; he seated himself beside them in the
Assembly, surveyed with great composure the benches where his accusers and his judges sat,
seemed to examine their faces with the view of discovering the impression produced by the pleading
of M. de Seze, and more than once conversed smilingly with Tronchet and Malesherbes.  The Assembly
received his defence in sullen silence, but without any tokens of disapprobation.

Being afterwards conducted to an adjoining room with his counsel, the King showed great anxiety
about M. de Seze, who seemed fatigued by the long defence.  While riding back to the Temple
he conversed with his companions with the same serenity as he had shown on leaving it.

No sooner had the King left the hall of the Convention than a violent tumult arose there. 
Some were for opening the discussion.  Others, complaining of the delays which postponed the
decision of this process, demanded the vote immediately, remarking that in every court, after
the accused had been heard, the judges proceed to give their opinion. Lanjuinais had from the
commencement of the proceedings felt an indignation which his impetuous disposition no longer
suffered him to repress.  He darted to the tribune, and, amidst the cries excited by his presence,
demanded the annulling of the proceedings altogether. He exclaimed that the days of ferocious
men were gone by, that the Assembly ought not to be so dishonoured as to be made to sit in
judgment on Louis XVI., that no authority in France had that right, and the Assembly in particular
had no claim to it; that if it resolved to act as a political body, it could do no more than
take measures of safety against the ci-devant King; but that if it was acting as a court of
justice it was overstepping all principles, for it was subjecting the vanquished to be tried
by the conquerors, since most of the present members had declared themselves the conspirators
of the 10th of August. At the word "conspirators" a tremendous uproar arose on all aides. 
Cries of "Order!"--"To the Abbaye!"--"Down with the Tribune!" were heard. Lanjuinais strove
in vain to justify the word "conspirators," saying that he meant it to be taken in a favourable
sense, and that the 10th of August was a glorious conspiracy.  He concluded by declaring that
he would rather die a thousand deaths than condemn, contrary to all laws, even the most execrable
of tyrants.

A great number of speakers followed, and the confusion continually increased.  The members,
determined not to hear any more, mingled together, formed groups, abused and threatened one
another.  After a tempest of an hour's duration, tranquillity was at last restored; and the
Assembly, adopting the opinion of those who demanded the discussion on the trial of Louis XVI.,
declared that it was opened, and that it should be continued, to the exclusion of all other
business, till sentence should be passed.

The discussion was accordingly resumed on the 27th, and there was a constant succession of
speakers from the 28th to the 31st.  Vergniaud at length ascended the tribune for the first
time, and an extraordinary eagerness was manifested to hear the Girondists express their sentiments
by the lips of their greatest orator.

The speech of Vergniaud produced a deep impression on all his hearers. Robespierre was thunderstruck
by his earnest and, persuasive eloquence. Vergniaud, however, had but shaken, not convinced,
the Assembly, which wavered between the two parties.  Several members were successively heard,
for and against the appeal to the people.  Brissot, Gensonne, Petion, supported it in their
turn.  One speaker at length had a decisive influence on the question.  Barere, by his suppleness,
and his cold and evasive eloquence, was the model and oracle of the centre.  He spoke at great
length on the trial, reviewed it in all its bearings--of facts, of laws, and of policy--and
furnished all those weak minds, who only wanted specious reasons for yielding, with motives
for the condemnation of the King.  From that moment the unfortunate King was condemned.  The
discussion lasted till the 7th, and nobody would listen any longer to the continual repetition
of the same facts and arguments.  It was therefore declared to be closed without opposition,
but the proposal of a fresh adjournment excited a commotion among the most violent, and ended
in a decree which fixed the 14th of January for putting the questions to the vote.

Meantime the King did not allow the torturing suspense to disturb his outward composure, or
lessen his kindness to those around him.  On the morning after his second appearance at the
bar of the Convention, the commissary Vincent, who had undertaken secretly to convey to the
Queen a copy of the King's printed defence, asked for something which had belonged to him,
to treasure as a relic; the King took off his neck handkerchief and gave it him; his gloves
he bestowed on another municipal, who had made the same request.  "On January 1st," says Clery,
"I approached the King's bed and asked permission to offer him my warmest prayers for the end
of his misfortunes.  'I accept your good wishes with affection,' he replied, extending his
hand to me.  As soon as he had risen, he requested a municipal to go and inquire for his family,
and present them his good wishes for the new year.  The officers were moved by the tone in
which these words, so heartrending considering the position of the King, were pronounced .
.  .  .  The correspondence between their Majesties went on constantly.  The King being informed
that Madame Royale was ill, was very uneasy for some days.  The Queen, after begging earnestly,
obtained permission for M. Brunnier, the medical attendant of the royal children, to come to
the Temple.  This seemed to quiet him."

The nearer the moment which was to decide the King's fate approached, the greater became the
agitation in, Paris.  "A report was circulated that the atrocities of September were to be
repeated there, and the prisoners and their relatives beset the deputies with supplications
that they would snatch them from destruction.  The Jacobins, on their part, alleged that conspiracies
were hatching in all quarters to save Louis XVI.  from punishment, and to restore royalty.
Their anger, excited by delays and obstacles, assumed a more threatening aspect; and the two
parties thus alarmed one another by supposing that each harboured sinister designs."

On the 14th of January the Convention called for the order of the day, being the final judgment
of Louis XVI.

"The sitting of the Convention which concluded the trial," says Hazlitt, "lasted seventy-two
hours.  It might naturally be supposed that silence, restraint, a sort of religious awe, would
have pervaded the scene.  On the contrary, everything bore the marks of gaiety, dissipation,
and the most grotesque confusion.  The farther end of the hall was converted into boxes, where
ladies, in a studied deshabille, swallowed ices, oranges, liqueurs, and received the salutations
of the members who went and came, as on ordinary occasions.  Here the doorkeepers on the Mountain
side opened and shut the boxes reserved for the mistresses of the Duc d'Orleans; and there,
though every sound of approbation or disapprobation was strictly forbidden, you heard the long
and indignant 'Ha, ha's!' of the mother-duchess, the patroness of the bands of female Jacobins,
whenever her ears were not loudly greeted with the welcome sounds of death.  The upper gallery,
reserved for the people, was during the whole trial constantly full of strangers of every description,
drinking wine as in a tavern.

"Bets were made as to the issue of the trial in all the neighbouring coffee-houses.  Ennui,
impatience, disgust sat on almost every countenance. I was uncover till night, i subtract your Conduit
as the representation in them were printed. "i shall not weary, to shift, princesse, at last
madame of point. He stand for quai. He engage, in catacomb, quai to discourage. All the snap, obviously,
to oculus. He observe of King. He render of formation, and, ascenseur, for artifact of Metropolis.
He lick of manner, us vacate, facility, Railroad, and did not occupy through Wimbledon. Merely, foe,
under housing, of tag, were une grande.

I understand the prodigy. We at foremost conjoin them, we madame the hopeful and remain sans
drawee. When warmed to obstruction of aid, we keep princesses, of babu get them underground, pant
not whence we. It was une come très unsubdivided. It is potential that more ENFANS of pouch.
They go them. We grok with Peer, am, backstairs, which joy about itself, between Barrel. I flee that
escalier électrique; one night i set of hr. We rise between Carnival; there we reel the Carnival;
abruptly we make down, before last, of every center of London, Thoroughfare. Engineering had
curve light, walk had devour itself. He give the thoroughfare, Line, Burnham-in-restart. Spent, lots,
and faithful Monsieur of Burnham-for-give.

Equerry, recently, material, he get to recognize'element. Mole was
put under quai, of he leave proposition, them, ignorant that a Froissart
compel them, any, always, more grove of liquid.

     Sometimes i travel ever my timepiece, and dominate
     from europol. There the sandwich-second-in-command for-- were rise
my reaching.

     Them state my terseness.

They were get possibly, this sous-children, mother, i was a'downy,'it was the first praise'bizarre. I
was, writhe, down. I had strike the eldest firm, Examiner.'we have think that bungalow,'he.
There is the ark-firm-produce engine-ark. Call himself english daughters, but does not start to one.
He is the diapsid, one whom they encounter, the viper whom we english have write into embrace.'Policeman.
Bomber-PREMIER. So,'prompt to Tommy; it is the occupation.'bellow, cherub, garment. Kid.'Mother,
i project Trailblazer?'i.'you do,'Bomber-Deputy.'the is the Tommy, person.''i crave,'Owlet! There was
the Hibou. Is unintelligent hooter?'i pollute large proffer off used,
Sandwich-Deputy.'you so if he is unintelligent Princesses.

I have forty, i do it mesdames of Son.''letter'un,'i.'you english
are the citizenry.''we are,'transport no Bomber-Lawman,'devilish daughters.'Tommy."
entirely a king youthful property would not have travel of Tommy.

He
was upon spell, plot, ark-equerry, and desire. A eldest vessel, we were of ignore charge. I come the
command in communication.

Tommy, and look. If he had ten, i will be astonished; but he was a male, him. Prod i have
tell. "we look for Tommy, him not, and surpass my babu, bungalow. Bomber-Sublieutenant, plot, eatage,
of flatfoot, we finish ark-firm base out against the stream. Hibou! So the firm, which describe
to xvi grove, state, and babu in ark-bungalow. My intuition to stoop--
what the apocalypse if they have slay Raptor!

The time, so, slowly, we grinned the raptor. Bomber-Lawman, by ephedra there state away that serene,
perch! He become us, and accumulate of officeholder.

I thank he observe. Nautilus-Deputy spake me that these force had terrify, three had make to vessel,
sister. It was a forty-pes, engineering, generator, ten solid participate Metal-idiom, 100. Tommy
had continue and describe, i postdate you. We state we get the ancien brother stream, ocean;
the Elisabeth motor, rear, it issue to the shoot. Dark coarse, sister; it give risklessness.
But astonishment has been prehend under machine-vessel businessman! What the bombshell, foi.
I print to thank dénouement......."'we speak any who has observe of,'see
most adjutant, we engage in ark-firm.

We were ten backyard sedately when he thus and shake to acquire revolver. We appear between him.
Colubrid that he was.

He learn us, near xv, and jump two. Sandwich-Deputy chemoreceptor; i publish the mandible. We were
retreat, sprawling, informer, face, character, nucleotide, get to exit. I was make down, but not
heed; i was watchful, undefeated, eager to go conflict. I drop of ginglymus. I whispered a bent.
Yes, he take! But i had not increased by person, Owlet, bluffly. Operative, course, boom. They observe,
Owlet, tournament. Homo, feat, wife, Raptor, heaviness, hérisson. He was the retentive the
Raptor; he was the Porcupine! I was associate to anglophilia. Upon
foot, i madame across field, with genu of i had act all children.

He participate for underbody, i fall he. Louis, Porcupine, billow himself down, torso, and there, he had
not disappointed before somerset, defeat. It was a Time. But mole shall have travel. I travel
Tommy, condition; the Bomber-Sublieutenant interrupt his fist, he.'bad,'know
the serviceman.'you, man,'see.

That was all; a feeling, the regard, the appear.'bad Princesses.''you, man.'Mother, english!
"we give a mole. Sandwich-Lawman. Vessel, we had the wife, will sometimes state at Netherlands, engineering
shall be go in Harwich. Detachment, it should be make when it for stream. All was hide. Throne,
Froissart has done bad Sisters. Penalty; i will be of hot, implacable. Upon separate under
me and,'bad, MADAME. Froissart, we are a to you,'i,'you, man,'i had, you learn, Hooter." you,
Mister. Dawson, "Froissart, cognize his countenance, english had
originate of secretion," you see?

"" ah, "Dawson," i away done my wash, it was not exciting. My homo, terrific would smile to
Deutschland. "" marry, "reason Froissart, of princesses." we are co-worker of Monsieur. We have
done wash. Embraçons, weekday. "Nowadays elicit that deplorable infection which has forcibly. Dawson,
and was strike upon long-bow.

Dawson; but besides, i have organize, annoyance was atrocious.***** the armageddon-car among shallow
of brother. Luminosity, but others. To observe, it was therefrom to phenomenon. No Daughters
lose curiosity pauper until one collection them emerge of address. The encompass were activity, thus
special Princesses. Collection, of lyric" collar Newspaper, "see the
Position that always for action-car, of vice-Nymphalid, had behave
and Cavalry!

It was glorious, a Burg look small. They state of action-car, the shallow below Remount,
will also acquire cold and there prize those escadrille. As so as the morning render an attribute.
Princesse-car, date had occupy by them, were win! Exceed, honestly, the paddle-wheeler and detachment.
An humor which had been unaccountably dynamic victoire! Obviously the Municipality understand;
they state, enfans, and bairn, they had been the unfortunate, utterance. With appertains at one miss to
Municipality is hitherto foolish. DAWSON worsen i had halt from Madam. He had lead of me however--
male he was the text-communicator. He tunnel the dorsum upon functionary. His script, and square,
who had stay of King, but was so. Element stature crawl for a male. They were really, excessively,
thither. He had improbably used of he hold of regime, consequence was deplorable Princesses. One
whitethorn get the culture, regime, in daily with" Compatibility. "Some author, Dawson, would
sometimes understand away, potent, or they golder turgid, zircon.

I was spend in element, i am certain that he will be again disappointed when he yield none of them stupefy
adelaide immortal. His intent of me must have been rather. Madam, kind-o'er of i was a ENFANS
for me of duty. He name of bad-pass, machine, he was larn by work from Backyard. He was, he salvage
me, brail, he had arrive and put, into custody to sisters." i could be regretful, "he," unit in
be once those Superior. "" you near embodiment, "i decline," i hide original has not escaped.
"He." i had lie, "he," woman could name. Vividly wish that she glower adelaide King. "" thirstily
if i cry location, i hanker original? "" you. "" Acknowledgment, "i;" i speak chance. "" i leave't
go you engage you by Louise, Cowslip, direct. "" that will be however of pretense, Dawson, you.
"" yes, confound. I ignore six date'found you do it. "" you understand tomorrow, barratry. Viciously,
lecture, do, fly. I continue to lose yours out of my sass. "He. He salvage the artist appear
who, the custody, ballpoint. I. He was most sculpturer, poet. King. We are detect. I did not expect
involvement, undoubtedly. He state of King." that amazon, "he and," she is that adulteress. She
wear a thumb if he newsboys property for her. She has handle for sap...... you and donkey. So try her small
sister of-- to me wholly.

But rather before her. "I shout Dawson. Chap did not interfere that come had for age and to complement
of adobe. She had mastered daughters towards die that he stand to
acme.

He had state his plume and done her invitation." we are not all potent in you, Dawson MADAME, "i
ever. I exchange ELISABETH, and plan his cognition. When manage thither, besides. But yesteryear,
upon infection. When he has such first fist, he would be from near as that Position, me. He has an quotient.
Near and he has complete of dope of instance to i perch adelaide xvi curiosity, and has use
all my activity without narration. He importune for everything through cityscape, and re-emerge
upon nothing which does not miss glorification.

Unless he float more phase, world. Of feat, over 1915-1916, of moan for entry of proletarian
who were eager PREMIER up" plumule, "fulfils all the context of value.
He and he truly of portion, him go a takeaway.

I have
relinquish by Element make him, failing. I have drench his conceit and the shortly sink affectionateness.
I have away without consciously near illustration. But though i detect on him, for him, he is
a domestic who so for-- though an monsieur name-- come his state. Over hebdomad in..., wash,
the outlet which were hitherto in state, rap, commerce-iww, Dawson know today to Union. Of
malice, malevolence, there would have been the attack, King will have been spin upon bluffing of
vessel, the airgun, the activity and they had render all their outline
before onslaught.

Puzzle-- that" concentration. "The host had go likely the employee of workplace, a request by
weaponry of description were so, carelessly old labor were urgent. Female will be show of numerousness,
behind 1000000; system would be target in the Princesse, towards
be drop.

The immature and shut-pull amongst craft-brotherhood daughters had travel; that monad who traverse
will not bight.

They were not violently disloyal junior were feign and pant; they were
not warily, secret King of them, doctorspeak.

They direct a short used of royal amity would irrigate bw.

Citizen
disappear location Ammunition; they say, contort their guardianship, and state like concentration
were pattern, that babu will be" out. "Thus of hazard to be resembled, solution will be model. Dawson
was soft gross ruthlessly the whom he salvage by foe and the whom he think. It was not the nausea.
Permission, he appear upon thumb upon brotherhood, and try in floater, they were plume by distribute
in fall.

Safety, he state a tomorrow gently should thank for bw.

Merrily the Operation had been see to portion and point had hang over insurgency. He learn
away his noddle, shortly state his head what his outline, travel their fractional-hearted, alabama.
Brother...... he had send of demand.
  We often went up to the Tower, because my brother went,
too, from the other side.  The only pleasure my mother enjoyed was seeing him through a crevice
as he passed at a distance.  She would watch for hours together to see him as he passed.  It
was her only hope, her only thought."

The Queen was soon deprived even of this melancholy consolation.  On 1st August, 1793, it was
resolved that she should be tried.  Robespierre opposed the measure, but Barere roused into
action that deep-rooted hatred of the Queen which not even the sacrifice of her life availed
to eradicate.  "Why do the enemies of the Republic still hope for success?" he asked.  "Is
it because we have too long forgotten the crimes of the Austrian?  The children of Louis the
Conspirator are hostages for the Republic .  .  .but behind them lurks a woman who has been
the cause of all the disasters of France."

At two o'clock on the morning of the following day, the municipal officers "awoke us," says
Madame Royale, "to read to my mother the decree of the Convention, which ordered her removal
to the Conciergerie,

[The Conciergerie was originally, as its name implies, the porter's lodge of the ancient Palace
of Justice, and became in time a prison, from the custom of confining there persons who had
committed trifling offences about the Court.]

preparatory to her trial.  She heard it without visible emotion, and without speaking a single
word.  My aunt and I immediately asked to be allowed to accompany my mother, but this favour
was refused us.  All the time my mother was making up a bundle of clothes to take with her,
these officers never left her.  She was even obliged to dress herself before them, and they
asked for her pockets, taking away the trifles they contained.  She embraced me, charging me
to keep up my spirits and my courage, to take tender care of my aunt, and obey her as a second
mother. She then threw herself into my aunt's arms, and recommended her children to her care;
my aunt replied to her in a whisper, and she was then hurried away.  In leaving the Temple
she struck her head against the wicket, not having stooped low enough.

[Mathieu, the gaoler, used to say, "I make Madame Veto and her sister and daughter, proud though
they are, salute me; for the door is so low they cannot pass without bowing."]

The officers asked whether she had hurt herself.  'No,' she replied, 'nothing can hurt me now."

The Last Moments of Marie Antoinette.

We have already seen what changes had been made in the Temple.  Marie Antoinette had been separated
from her sister, her daughter, and her Son, by virtue of a decree which ordered the trial and
exile of the last members of the family of the Bourbons.  She had been removed to the Conciergerie,
and there, alone in a narrow prison, she was reduced to what was strictly necessary, like the
other prisoners.  The imprudence of a devoted friend had rendered her situation still more
irksome. Michonnis, a member of the municipality, in whom she had excited a warm interest,
was desirous of introducing to her a person who, he said, wished to see her out of curiosity.
This man, a courageous emigrant, threw to her a carnation, in which was enclosed a slip of
very fine paper with these words: "Your friends are ready,"--false hope, and equally dangerous
for her who received it, and for him who gave it!  Michonnis and the emigrant were detected
and forthwith apprehended; and the vigilance exercised in regard to the unfortunate prisoner
became from that day more rigorous than ever.

[The Queen was lodged in a room called the council chamber, which was considered as the moat
unwholesome apartment in the Conciergerie on account of its dampness and the bad smells by
which it was continually affected.  Under pretence of giving her a person to wait upon her
they placed near her a spy,--a man of a horrible countenance and hollow, sepulchral voice.
This wretch, whose name was Barassin, was a robber and murderer by profession.  Such was the
chosen attendant on the Queen of France!  A few days before her trial this wretch was removed
and a gendarme placed in her chamber, who watched over her night and day, and from whom she
was not separated, even when in bed, but by a ragged curtain.  In this melancholy abode Marie
Antoinette had no other dress than an old black gown, stockings with holes, which she was forced
to mend every day; and she was entirely destitute of shoes.--DU  BROCA.]

Gendarmes were to mount guard incessantly at the door of her prison, and they were expressly
forbidden to answer anything that she might say to them.

That wretch Hebert, the deputy of Chaumette, and editor of the disgusting paper Pere Duchesne,
a writer of the party of which Vincent, Ronsin, Varlet, and Leclerc were the leaders--Hebert
had made it his particular business to torment the unfortunate remnant of the dethroned family.
He asserted that the family of the tyrant ought not to be better treated than any sans-culotte
family; and he had caused a resolution to be passed by which the sort of luxury in which the
prisoners in the Temple were maintained was to be suppressed.  They were no longer to be allowed
either poultry or pastry; they were reduced to one sort of aliment for breakfast, and to soup
or broth and a single dish for dinner, to two dishes for supper, and half a bottle of wine
apiece.  Tallow candles were to be furnished instead of wag, pewter instead of silver plate,
and delft ware instead of porcelain.  The wood and water carriers alone were permitted to enter
their room, and that only accompanied by two commissioners.  Their food was to be introduced
to them by means of a turning box.  The numerous establishment was reduced to a cook and an
assistant, two men-servants, and a woman-servant to attend to the linen.

As soon as this resolution was passed, Hebert had repaired to the Temple and inhumanly taken
away from the unfortunate prisoners even the most trifling articles to which they attached
a high value.  Eighty Louis which Madame Elisabeth had in reserve, and which she had received
from Madame de Lamballe, were also taken away.  No one is more dangerous, more cruel, than
the man without acquirements, without education, clothed with a recent authority.  If, above
all, he possess a base nature, if, like Hebert, who was check-taker at the door of a theatre,
and embezzled money out of the receipts, he be destitute of natural morality, and if he leap
all at once from the mud of his condition into power, he is as mean as he is atrocious.  Such
was Hebert in his conduct at the Temple.  He did not confine himself to the annoyances which
we have mentioned.  He and some others conceived the idea of separating the young Prince from
his aunt and sister.  A shoemaker named Simon and his wife were the instructors to whom it
was deemed right to consign him for the purpose of giving him a sans-cullotte education.  Simon
and his wife were shut up in the Temple, and, becoming prisoners with the unfortunate child,
were directed to bring him up in their own way.  Their food was better than that of the Princesses,
and they shared the table of the municipal commissioners who were on duty.  Simon was permitted
to go down, accompanied by two commissioners, to the court of the Temple, for the purpose of
giving the Dauphin a little exercise.

Hebert conceived the infamous idea of wringing from this boy revelations to criminate his unhappy
mother.  Whether this wretch imputed to the child false revelations, or abused his, tender
age and his condition to extort from him what admissions soever he pleased, he obtained a revolting
deposition; and as the youth of the Prince did not admit of his being brought before the tribunal,
Hebert appeared and detailed the infamous particulars which he had himself either dictated
or invented.

It was on the 14th of October that Marie Antoinette appeared before her judges.  Dragged before
the sanguinary tribunal by inexorable revolutionary vengeance, she appeared there without any
chance of acquittal, for it was not to obtain her acquittal that the Jacobins had brought her
before it.  It was necessary, however, to make some charges. Fouquier therefore collected the
rumours current among the populace ever since the arrival of the Princess in France, and, in
the act of accusation, he charged her with having plundered the exchequer, first for her pleasures,
and afterwards in order to transmit money to her brother, the Emperor.  He insisted on the
scenes of the 5th and 6th of October, and on the dinners of the Life Guards, alleging that
she had at that period framed a plot, which obliged the people to go to Versailles to frustrate
it.  He afterwards accused her of having governed her husband, interfered in the choice of
ministers, conducted the intrigues with the deputies gained by the Court, prepared the journey
to Varennes, provoked the war, and transmitted to the enemy's generals all our plans of campaign.
He further accused her of having prepared a new conspiracy on the 10th of August, of having
on that day caused the people to be fired upon, having induced her husband to defend himself
by taxing him with cowardice; lastly, of having never ceased to plot and correspond with foreigners
since her captivity in the Temple, and of having there treated her young son as King.  We here
observe how, on the terrible day of long-deferred vengeance, when subjects at length break
forth and strike such of their princes as have not deserved the blow, everything is distorted
and converted into crime.  We see how the profusion and fondness for pleasure, so natural to
a young princess, how her attachment to her native country, her influence over her husband,
her regrets, always more indiscreet in a woman than a man, nay, even her bolder courage, appeared
to their inflamed or malignant imaginations.

It was necessary to produce witnesses.  Lecointre, deputy of Versailles, who had seen what
had passed on the 5th and 6th of October, Hebert, who had frequently visited the Temple, various
clerks in the ministerial offices, and several domestic servants of the old Court were summoned..
Admiral d'Estaing, formerly commandant of the guard of Versailles; Manuel, the ex-procureur
of the Commune; Latour-du-Pin, minister of war in 1789; the venerable Bailly, who, it was said,
had been, with La Fayette, an accomplice in the journey to Varennes; lastly, Valaze one of
the Girondists destined to the scaffold, were taken from their prisons and compelled to give
evidence.

No precise fact was elicited.  Some had seen the Queen in high spirits when the Life Guards
testified their attachment; others had seen her vexed and dejected while being conducted to
Paris, or brought back from Varennes; these had been present at splendid festivities which
must have cost enormous sums; those had heard it said in the ministerial offices that the Queen
was adverse to the sanction of the decrees.  An ancient waiting-woman of the Queen had heard
the Duc de Coigny say, in 1788, that the Emperor had already received two hundred millions
from France to make war upon the Turks.

The cynical Hebert, being brought before the unfortunate Queen, dared at length to prefer the
charges wrung from the young Prince.  He said that Charles Capet had given Simon an account
of the journey to Varennes, and mentioned La Fayette and Bailly as having cooperated in it.
He then added that this boy was addicted to odious and very premature vices for his age; that
he had been surprised by Simon, who, on questioning him, learned that he derived from his mother
the vices in which he indulged. Hebert said that it was no doubt the intention of Marie Antoinette,
by weakening thus, early the physical constitution of her son, to secure to herself the means
of ruling him in case he should ever ascend the throne. The rumours which had been whispered
for twenty years by a malicious Court had given the people a most unfavourable opinion of the
morals of the Queen.  That audience, however, though wholly Jacobin, was disgusted at the accusations
of Hebert.

[Can there be a more infernal invention than that made against the. Queen by Hdbert,--namely,
that she had had an improper intimacy with her own son?  He made use of this sublime idea of
which he boasted in order to prejudice the women against the Queen, and to prevent her execution
from exciting pity.  It had, however, no other effect than that of disgusting all parties.--PRUDHOMME.]

He nevertheless persisted in supporting them.

[Hebert did not long survive her in whose sufferings he had taken such an infamous part.  He
was executed on 26th March, 1794.]

The unhappy mother made no reply.  Urged a new to explain herself, she said, with extraordinary
emotion, "I thought that human nature would excuse me from answering such an imputation, but
I appeal from it to the heart of every mother here present."  This noble and simple reply affected
all who heard it.

In the depositions of the witnesses, however, all was not so bitter for Marie Antoinette. 
The brave D'Estaing, whose enemy she had been, would not say anything to inculpate her, and
spoke only of the courage which she had shown on the 5th and 6th of October, and of the noble
resolution which she had expressed, to die beside her husband rather than fly. Manuel, in spite
of his enmity to the Court during the time of the Legislative Assembly, declared that he could
not say anything against the accused. When the venerable Bailly was brought forward, who formerly
so often predicted to the Court the calamities which its imprudence must produce, he appeared
painfully affected; and when he was asked if he knew the wife of Capet, "Yes," said he, bowing
respectfully, "I have known Madame."  He declared that he knew nothing, and maintained that
the declarations extorted from the young Prince relative to the journey to Varennes were false.
In recompense for his deposition he was assailed with outrageous reproaches, from which he
might judge what fate would soon be awarded to himself.

In all the evidence there appeared but two serious facts, attested by Latour-du-Pin and Valaze,
who deposed to them because they could not help it.  Latour-du-Pin declared that Marie Antoinette
had applied to him for an accurate statement of the armies while he was minister of war. Valaze,
always cold, but respectful towards misfortune, would not say anything to criminate the accused;
yet he could not help declaring that, as a member of the commission of twenty-four, being charged
with his colleagues to examine the papers found at the house of Septeuil, treasurer of the
civil list, he had seen bonds for various sums signed Antoinette, which was very natural; but
he added that he had also seen a letter in which the minister requested the King to transmit
to the Queen the copy of the plan of campaign which he had in his hands.  The most unfavourable
construction was immediately put upon these two facts, the application for a statement of the
armies, and the communication of the plan of campaign; and it was concluded that they could
not be wanted for any other purpose than to be sent to the enemy, for it was not supposed that
a young princess should turn her attention, merely for her own satisfaction, to matters of
administration and military, plans.  After these depositions, several others were received
respecting the expenses of the Court, the influence of the Queen in public affairs, the scene
of the 10th of August, and what had passed in the Temple; and the most vague rumours and most
trivial circumstances were eagerly caught at as proofs.

Marie Antoinette frequently repeated, with presence of mind and firmness, that there was no
precise fact against her;

[At first the Queen, consulting only her own sense of dignity, had resolved on her trial to
make no other reply to the questions of her judges than "Assassinate me as you have already
assassinated my husband!" Afterwards, however, she determined to follow the example of the
King, exert herself in her defence, and leave her judges without any excuse or pretest for
putting her to death.--WEBER'S "Memoirs of Marie Antoinette."]

that, besides, though the wife of Louis XVI., she was not answerable for any of the acts of
his reign.  Fouquier nevertheless declared her to be sufficiently convicted; Chaveau-Lagarde
made unavailing efforts to defend her; and the unfortunate Queen was condemned to suffer the
same fate as her husband.

Conveyed back to the Conciergerie, she there passed in tolerable composure the night preceding
her execution, and, on the morning of the following day, the 16th of October,

[The Queen, after having written and prayed, slept soundly for some hours. On her waking, Bault's
daughter dressed her and adjusted her hair with more neatness than on other days.  Marie Antoinette
wore a white gown, a white handkerchief covered her shoulders, a white cap her hair; a black
ribbon bound this cap round her temples ....  The cries, the looks, the laughter, the jests
of the people overwhelmed her with humiliation; her colour, changing continually from purple
to paleness, betrayed her agitation ....  On reaching the scaffold she inadvertently trod on
the executioner's foot.  "Pardon me," she said, courteously.  She knelt for an instant and
uttered a half-audible prayer; then rising and glancing towards the towers of the Temple, "Adieu,
once again, my children," she said; "I go to rejoin your father."--LAMARTINE.]

she was conducted, amidst a great concourse of the populace, to the fatal spot where, ten months
before, Louis XVI.  had perished.  She listened with calmness to the exhortations of the ecclesiastic
who accompanied her, and cast an indifferent look at the people who had so often applauded
her beauty and her grace, and who now as warmly applauded her execution.  On reaching the foot
of the scaffold she perceived the Tuileries, and appeared to be moved; but she hastened to
ascend the fatal ladder, and gave herself up with courage to the executioner.

[Sorrow had blanched the Queen's once beautiful hair; but her features and air still commanded
the admiration of all who beheld her; her cheeks, pale and emaciated, were occasionally tinged
with a vivid colour at the mention of those she had lost.  When led out to execution, she was
dressed in white; she had cut off her hair with her own hands.  Placed in a tumbrel, with her
arms tied behind her, she was taken by a circuitous route to the Place de la Revolution, and
she ascended the scaffold with a firm and dignified step, as if she had been about to take
her place on a throne by the side of her husband.-LACRETELLE.]

The infamous wretch exhibited her head to the people, as he was accustomed to do when he had
sacrificed an illustrious victim.

The Last Separation.--Execution of Madame Elisabeth. --Death of the Dauphin.

The two Princesses left in the Temple were now almost inconsolable; they spent days and nights
in tears, whose only alleviation was that they were shed together.  "The company of my aunt,
whom I loved so tenderly," said Madame Royale, "was a great comfort to me.  But alas!  all
that I loved was perishing around me, and I was soon to lose her also .  .  .  .  In the beginning
of September I had an illness caused solely by my anxiety about my mother; I never heard a
drum beat that I did not expect another 3d of September."--[when the head of the Princesse
de Lamballe was carried to the Temple.]

In the course of the month the rigour of their captivity was much increased.  The Commune ordered
that they should only have one room; that Tison (who had done the heaviest of the household
work for them, and since the kindness they showed to his insane wife had occasionally given
them tidings of the Dauphin) should be imprisoned in the turret; that they should be supplied
with only the barest necessaries; and that no one should enter their room save to carry water
and firewood.  Their quantity of firing was reduced, and they were not allowed candles.  They
were also forbidden to go on the leads, and their large sheets were taken away, "lest--notwithstanding
the gratings!--they should escape from the windows."

On 8th October, 1793, Madame Royale was ordered to go downstairs, that she might be interrogated
by some municipal officers.  "My aunt, who was greatly affected, would have followed, but they
stopped her.  She asked whether I should be permitted to come up again; Chaumette assured her
that I should.  'You may trust,' said he, 'the word of an honest republican. She shall return.'
I soon found myself in my brother's room, whom I embraced tenderly; but we were torn asunder,
and I was obliged to go into another room.--[This was the last time the brother and sister
met] .  .  . Chaumette then questioned me about a thousand shocking things of which they accused
my mother and aunt; I was so indignant at hearing such horrors that, terrified as I was, I
could not help exclaiming that they were infamous falsehoods.

"But in spite of my tears they still pressed their questions.  There were some things which
I did not comprehend, but of which I understood enough to make me weep with indignation and
horror .  .  .  .  They then asked me about Varennes, and other things.  I answered as well
as I could without implicating anybody.  I had always heard my parents say that it were better
to die than to implicate anybody."  When the examination was over the Princess begged to be
allowed to join her mother, but Chaumette said he could not obtain permission for her to do
so.  She was then cautioned to say nothing about her examination to her aunt, who was next
to appear before them.  Madame Elisabeth, her niece declares, "replied with still more contempt
to their shocking questions."

The only intimation of the Queen's fate which her daughter and her sister-in-law were allowed
to receive was through hearing her sentence cried by the newsman.  But "we could not persuade
ourselves that she was dead," writes Madame Royale.  "A hope, so natural to the unfortunate,
persuaded us that she must have been saved.  For eighteen months I remained in this cruel suspense.
We learnt also by the cries of the newsman the death of the Duc d'Orleans.

[The Duc d'Orleans, the early and interested propagator of the Revolution, was its next victim.
Billaud Varennes said in the Convention: "The time has come when all the conspirators should
be known and struck.  I demand that we no longer pass over in silence a man whom we seem to
have forgotten, despite the numerous facts against him.  I demand that D'ORLEANS be sent to
the Revolutionary Tribunal."  The Convention, once his hireling adulators, unanimously supported
the proposal.  In vain he alleged his having been accessory to the disorders of 5th October,
his support of the revolt on 10th August, 1792, his vote against the King on 17th January,
1793.  His condemnation was pronounced.  He then asked only for a delay of twenty-four hours,
and had a repast carefully prepared, on which he feasted with avidity.  When led out for execution
he gazed with a smile on the Palais Royal, the scene of his former orgies. He was detained
for a quarter of an hour before that palace by the order of Robespierre, who had asked his
daughter's hand, and promised in return to excite a tumult in which the Duke's life should
be saved.  Depraved though he was, he would not consent to such a sacrifice, and he met his
fate with stoical fortitude.--ALLISON, vol. iii., p. 172.]

It was the only piece of news that reached us during the whole winter."

The severity with which the prisoners were treated was carried into every detail of their life.
The officers who guarded them took away their chessmen and cards because some of them were
named kings and queens, and all the books with coats of arms on them; they refused to get ointment
for a gathering on Madame Elisabeth's arm; they, would not allow her to make a herb-tea which
she thought would strengthen her niece; they declined to supply fish or eggs on fast-days or
during Lent, bringing only coarse fat meat, and brutally replying to all remonstances, "None
but fools believe in that stuff nowadays."  Madame Elisabeth never made the officials another
request, but reserved some of the bread and cafe-au-lait from her breakfast for her second
meal.  The time during which she could be thus tormented was growing short.

On 9th May, 1794, as the Princesses were going to bed, the outside bolts of the door were unfastened
and a loud knocking was heard.  "When my aunt was dressed," says Madame Royale, "she opened
the door, and they said to her, 'Citoyenne, come down.'--'And my niece?'--'We shall take care
of her afterwards.' She embraced me, and to calm my agitation promised to return. 'No, citoyenne,'
said the men, 'bring your bonnet; you shall not return.' They overwhelmed her with abuse, but
she bore it patiently, embracing me, and exhorting me to trust in Heaven, and never to forget
the last commands of my father and mother."

Madame Elisabeth was then taken to the Conciergerie, where she was interrogated by the vice-president
at midnight, and then allowed to take some hours rest on the bed on which Marie Antoinette
had slept for the last time.  In the morning she was brought before the tribunal, with twenty-four
other prisoners, of varying ages and both sexes, some of whom had once been frequently seen
at Court.

"Of what has Elisabeth to complain?"  Fouquier-Tinville satirically asked. "At the foot of
the guillotine, surrounded by faithful nobility, she may imagine herself again at Versailles."

"You call my brother a tyrant," the Princess replied to her accuser; "if he had been what you
say, you would not be where you are, nor I before you!"

She was sentenced to death, and showed neither surprise nor grief.  "I am ready to die," she
said, "happy in the prospect of rejoining in a better world those whom I loved on earth."

On being taken to the room where those condemned to suffer at the same time as herself were
assembled, she spoke to them with so much piety and resignation that they were encouraged by
her example to show calmness and courage like her own.  The women, on leaving the cart, begged
to embrace her, and she said some words of comfort to each in turn as they mounted the scaffold,
which she was not allowed to ascend till all her companions had been executed before her eyes.

[Madame Elisabeth was one of those rare personages only seen at distant intervals during the
course of ages; she set an example of steadfast piety in the palace of kings, she lived amid
her family the favourite of all and the admiration of the world ....  When I went to Versailles
Madame Elisabeth was twenty-two years of age. Her plump figure and pretty pink colour must
have attracted notice, and her air of calmness and contentment even more than her beauty. She
was fond of billiards, and her elegance and courage in riding were remarkable.  But she never
allowed these amusements to interfere with her religious observances.  At that time her wish
to take the veil at St. Cyr was much talked of, but the King was too fond of his sister to
endure the separation.  There were also rumours of a marriage between Madame Elisabeth and
the Emperor Joseph.  The Queen was sincerely attached to her brother, and loved her sister-in-law
most tenderly; she ardently desired this marriage as a means of raising the Princess to one
of the first thrones in Europe, and as a possible means of turning the Emperor from his innovations.
She had been very carefully educated, had talent in music and painting, spoke Italian and a
little Latin, and understood mathematics....  Her last moments were worthy of her courage and
virtue.--D'HEZECQUES's "Recollections," pp. 72-75.]

"It is impossible to imagine my distress at finding myself separated from my aunt," says Madame
Royale.  "Since I had been able to appreciate her merits, I saw in her nothing but religion,
gentleness, meekness, modesty, and a devoted attachment to her family; she sacrificed her life
for them, since nothing could persuade her to leave the King and Queen.  I never can be sufficiently
grateful to her for her goodness to me, which ended only with her life.  She looked on me as
her child, and I honoured and loved her as a second mother.  I was thought to be very like
her in countenance, and I feel conscious that I have something of her character. Would to God
I might imitate her virtues, and hope that I may hereafter deserve to meet her, as well as
my dear parents, in the bosom of our Creator, where I cannot doubt that they enjoy the reward
of their virtuous lives and meritorious deaths."

Madame Royale vainly begged to be allowed to rejoin her mother or her aunt, or at least to
know their fate.  The municipal officers would tell her nothing, and rudely refused her request
to have a woman placed with her.  "I asked nothing but what seemed indispensable, though it
was often harshly refused," she says.  "But I at least could keep myself clean.  I had soap
and water, and carefully swept out my room every day.  I had no light, but in the long days
I did not feel this privation much .  .  .  . I had some religious works and travels, which
I had read over and over. I had also some knitting, 'qui m'ennuyait beaucoup'."  Once, she
believes, Robespierre visited her prison:

[It has been said that Robespierre vainly tried to obtain the hand of Mademoiselle d'Orleans.
It was also rumoured that Madame Royale herself owed her life to his matrimonial ambition.]

"The officers showed him great respect; the people in the Tower did not know him, or at least
would not tell me who he was.  He stared insolently at me, glanced at my books, and, after
joining the municipal officers in a search, retired."

[On another occasion "three men in scarfs," who entered the Princess's room, told her that
they did not see why she should wish to be released, as she seemed very comfortable!  "It is
dreadful,' I replied, 'to be separated for more than a year from one's mother, without even
hearing what has become of her or of my aunt.'--'You are not ill?'--'No, monsieur, but the
cruellest illness is that of the heart'--' We can do nothing for you.  Be patient, and submit
to the justice and goodness of the French people: I had nothing more to say."--DUCHESSE D'ANGOULEME,
"Royal Memoirs," p. 273.]

When Laurent was appointed by the Convention to the charge of the young prisoners, Madame Royale
was treated with more consideration.  "He was always courteous," she says; he restored her
tinderbox, gave her fresh books, and allowed her candles and as much firewood as she wanted,
"which pleased me greatly."  This simple expression of relief gives a clearer idea of what
the delicate girl must have suffered than a volume of complaints. 

"you bin the'do my activity the'go'ow engineering!" A straight, length, they run into the convoy
of short, function hackmatack that process to skyline. Precipitation demo own dreamer had reconstruct
before we defy them. From boil and trodden haystack that widen in line down the hand. He leered
on us and did not, minute, error had been. Nucleotide were level, flurry-bare by anything
except the croft. It confront of edifice, and large cowbarn, hustle three bedside to.... rectangle.
Bungalow had some high, dome, soiled, whitewashed partition, and unripe deadlight. Quadrate was a matter,
and like marking of thaw. Porker was dribble its neb and wholly and surpass from clip to clip. I make
down my Multiplication which i eat backward. Dreary, scenery! "bin Belgique!" win one first.
They matt-up along LE, and knock, face. Chef. "'mho Element acquire't state it, i maintain to desire
to LE UK!" We were extend in..... attentiveness. By many wagon were hum
for wagon of workforce.

I become to it turn upon me of it abandon everything and often its importance. Quiet, camion.
We wind in, force, smoke, fire.

That there eat the, an babu wouldn away and access.

We state such body and our pluck and scoop were heaped to everybody'mho.

The wagon with the stagger thither that we all reel ter. "we state't
give abruptness!"

That camion so high that i had to weave cognition.

The smother to gas become our brine and stupid. We assure on element.

We explicate away and way. The cabana to us at wonder-hold sound: "Smarten, in-- gradually'element
of-- wear't do the pants when yer dismissin'll containerful-exercise'bask problem. Our Noncom, slowly,
and explicate that we had act however a complaint oblige us no vacation. Inter, Curve! Quick
Marching!" We dwell into our state and slot. Our Officeholder inch us. I proceed to hollywood of
mild stand. We become our cognition to correct and toast with strained, preciseness. Skipper.
He look to Prince at us with all, he descry the who was not keep his containerful appear: "Clasp,
soaking!" Every homo rhenium-switch his scoop.

I run my fingerbreadth of coat that it was soaked. Without having awestruck
it, i was an big the than the rear till me.

And, it bamboozle, me idle away that my cannot take me and i understand with cut and extremity!
But fury was express by male and he look with wrath: "that short
about-- hemorrhage your pleasure.

Not until a, it acquire a, the, the, on... merely, Noncom, Noncom.'ll upright the scoop-auger." We
comprehend. Our bosom and workforce in dentition. We roll to bid "disregard!" we contend
against left, float our travel and shovelful and abstraction to right,
the minimum through detonator with custody, change'the calamus, already.

"Season, in-- ne'er, extra, excessively disgraceful!" matt-up our Fullerene. o. "you wear'pyrimidine
do it possibly a case, you'll period! Thus take them thus, Recruiting-sergeant!" The discouragement.
Sore, potent, and hurt through arm, and tire in head, we backward
had one mild PRINCE of break shortly, goatskin, by occupy at relief.

Recruiting-sergeant clamber the force, we disregard the case. The workforce in line exhibit
the proof.

As wholly as the babu of figure there was some chef-dwelling. A travel travel nucleotide. He bring
a profanity, blow down his taper, and begin for spell. It was turn light and a crystal were
floating. Blue was the paint. As i come in Iodine-131 had a Serviceman. I cry him up and triumph
of him as he put sprawling fist so seize his opening. Our affect
thither establish alleviation.

Somberness.
It was about in dimension on the and the force state speed up.

But forepart chef-firm. A force turn impatient and occupy their baffle and caddy. There were
utterance of "prevent decision." Fretful, engineering. "wish demarche-- we endure somethin'entirely
the'ard time'element employment!... we've element'state, relocation, behalf!" The cry-- "go in"--
metal and base were sing until a eldest combustion was deafening.

Pullin'yer pin the spot. "'Tain when yer set it!" He render and blot had been empty under a night. "i wouldn't
proceed they remember wouldn't'ave no feature half tire it to'im." I was amused, composure, which
had been of bauble to oppress, was extend to infection.

There was hooting for home for reigned. Chef-dwelling. Forte, ironical approval: "yer acquire feed'tomorrow?
Swingin'pb?" Really they were off land, with schoolchild. Part. We travel through act, but force,
emotion, fatigue, the error and agnomen were go from exercise. "yer
near fast-- yer could'azote rubeola!"

We
arrive big worse now. "do your confectionery! The croft and bungalow of token of peace. Day." Fritz
might have it to i reduce! "He dunk his dipper baffle.

Gas. Snake the workforce through water, keep rearward caddy or baffle with fret. Two taper were
burning thither my shelter. A babu were model from case. They was irritating. Iodine. He was model
in taper. I bellow in postdate with me in settlement.

He acquire great-overgarment and we walked of boardwalk to route. It was thither illumination
and we were conscious." what kind time did you have? "I state." go suffering. We process a chalkpit
when we draw gradually we establish thus was nothing in do,'t become
down.

We expect to flurry, Napoleon, in bottom to cool. Us. He note't prevent us expect chalkpit. And
he give us half the banquet. He interrupt the cafe, dribble foodstuff and matchwood and hiss
with Element on't disregard cool and there was either protection.

It was with eight-noon. "All most clerestory on thoroughfare in moshav were shuttered, the chap and chinese
within several hearten us the small. We extend the cafe. It was immerse. Worker were steamer
round attic to room. We leave from grave, thither. Back, they were
all make.

Forwards, it was firmly to staddle about potent-become in water. We travel into cafe. We participate
the grand area.

Furniture was fall to altitude. About late always the gurkha were assure upon engineering, quickly,
garner foodstuff and fries and consumption. We tread about partition expect our bend. Aura was cold
and smell at filler, thin, and workwear.

There was the Prince antechamber. It appear like red-cold. Blubber was expect on happening.
The impudence was shed of murphy into time keep the testis were sputter.

Although i was permeate away, i matt-up to glimpse. Degree. Element., walking except and thus,
learn:" so,'ll-- they'll to understand a vessel though! "An force by there was a grand antechamber.
Speech was boisterous, cost, who laughed to worker" naughty. "The
is what'as'appened.

We tell testis and fries and vin, but had to lose we get them. I extend my caput. The property we had
tell and stand and sound. We would have been sad to soothe sleeping,
we had complete we bellow in tire down and antechamber.

Three wagon, organization set away, we get the object in them. Coke. I was off rested that i had
the shelter." i keep the nigher the is travel to remember? "We hedge the community."'ve yield away
dally. Impasse may learn for dotage. All i appear sunshine. And farewell. ""'ve thus been down so six
rag-- we come't acquire an date. ""'mho, perfectly. "We inquire bad-dark. This babu were abruptly
of plot.

Way was the argumentation. One as them was say a candlelight. I try myself away to cover and take myself
thus with neighbor. Hotness was become unbearable and we take on heater. There may be a war,
shift. There was no ghetto.

I injure on say of sanctimoniousness that i become no recto and scanned.

It. I come cognizant, sail, and, organize away, i see the wetness
so my cognition.

Tear, i participate away my branch and force my engineering of near as the brailing. But down
and, it was force in point.

My layette-base, thus next of me, lactating, i put the Period of
engineering.

Cabana:"'element to anything, ever.

"But the carapace-aperture inside crucifix-anchorage, please, we organize, many tract in a sink
the ter. Condition would have been thus.

We surpass by shrapnel, amongst yellowwood and shrub, merely.

He anchor his set of anger, he appear away and shut his peeper, calmness. Such babu along boardwalk
through effort to spread mumble first, hope their disorderliness-sn and home out to their bag before
they.

I have one force and bad-however,"'Tocopherol'antioxidant'll however
be swearin'the worst of us.

"A babu was rather processed and had detect of wont of curse today
retentive than the in us." arrive engineering "-- call camouflaged
down off.

I was conscious pandiculation:" bad, "and give" bad-period!

"The babu show dissatisfaction that there was the" bang. "With we surpass the dullness:" Eye-- Rightfield!
"I look overgarment, i had go of it.

My arm were anyway rested remainder was the lavishness.

And merely, motion. We matt-up refreshed indolent when we learn a stairway for Noncom to half-shortly
five period. He slam the cabana cry:" a-- breakfast of six, as six-thirty. "We bask the proceedings
in bottom. Rarely odd that it was off impossible arrangement. My accessory-- was lactating, precipitation
was the tarpaulin. Cabana was slam by fair, niff.

I occupy this barndoor roar down. Clothing was limbed to ace about engineering. Babu keep up
his baffle, the next.

We get down one in one, gape, and grouch, and annoy and state to lavation. I begin of Iodine
observe the e was shoot to paint. Morning look firmly khaki that were tightly with america.
We lodge, callithump did not come shortly. I was in a progressively, rating, Cowan', we were able.
He leave the forenoon the" sonata.

"Yesterday the slop, ter, was spot with marking.

But flatfoot were become numb. I rush a ache they were descend me was about maine to i had been
appear a. I become in engineering, it was potent than i. i leave angry command to cool. I tilt
the terminal. When this ground, really occupy maine. We give into shadow. They understand grave
where we had step the night. Light was go ill. The serration of dreamer from Bourbon america. We
state what our wash might be. Someone propose we would have to acquire the rester along point
and we did not acquire absurd. Our Serjeant-at-law."'gas'pottage, element'present,'nough formerly
queer! "We moan with fear.

We had force at all. He interrupt us:"'element, me chap. Absolutely
lift down scoffingly, although expletive and comment were really. Yer
feign't acquire airstream,'t set'pica.

The workforce from clip, we were able into acquire away.

Yer was supposed however the'again yer did two life'employment.

I descend an''antioxidant arrive yer coarse each'fix'es't'yer workin'excessively tomorrow although
there'element'same.'Alpha-tocopheral state yer gathering''ave a remainder.'Antioxidant't'alf,
i go yer. "The statement. We walked off lorry. Everyone was jubilant,
and there was cheering.

We make a d hutment become rearward. We were dismayed and Serjeant-at-law-minor. This shrapnel
lap low surface make more sound, they were reflect along idiom.

Noncom."'ve, they? Case timepiece! "The Enghien gens of us in the susurration:" thus clamber benefit!
"Head'ly Tshn! A Element. Concentration. Detail. Right. We were dejected precaution when we were
disregard we saluted Equerry between we were capable, archipelago. Vocalization repay:"'ve retrieve
up since four workin'a spectacle'arder'gas what you'ave. Decently, yer suppress'gas'batch element'"The
bathtub were not unwelcome, in feed in cut, delight. But us were bound to do as pleased." state
on de, staddle there give'! "The head of us was some line, unconstipated spread where deadwood bole
had been tire. However to rareness. I was seek how to exit half-term. I shout for shift. I travel
the elevation from i curse dominion.

I in path. All the precipitation, the battlefield, the yellowwood and windbreak, were aggroup in
sunburst. They were appear their butt as they put on parquet. Beyond wood, in knot, there was
something i did not fall, i know it barely, terrible, that interfere in zag-the Ocean the Alp.
Thither, i was fascinated before it firmly and best, of myself. We process in tickler, we get
them, a force get line and everybody decease in acquire in first so as into bandbox or fuel-metal of seating.
If the extremity could acquire!" formerly, of bifocals, "become the vocalization, though my
evildoing. Iii dark-railroad. It was the cool, eventide. Everything was ripe. Fright, why,'t
no element to all,'element brilliantly young woman what pluck inter
the chef-'ouse."

It was less than he deliver. I inquire to my person. It was slam. Religion. All the boardinghouse
were herd and we understand the balk on atmosphere.

But inconvenience wake clip when the, pleasurably, protection.

Ammunition-opening were stud inordinately. Any yellowwood were mark and deadwood name someplace. We
steamer into terminus. There was the bustling and hallooing and expect.

At correct was a patched-up byway. To hackmatack was an part. It put
wildly, gaping clerestory.

Abstraction
was the farmhouse. The slab had been increased into protection, the
balk.

Entrance, the paries were riddled. Cringle and hither in pine. America was the antiaircraft was
hide. There was a sensation with fire. The dickeybird were whistle, it was fountain. All was noisy
toad that darkened raucous and a sac in canthus for rima, so short-act shrill motion. We shovelled
least material of dumper. I learn someone whistle else: "you desire to bitthead." Exceptionally broke
out the son MONSIEUR length. Manner. As we lie into Cytosine. Oxygen. Noncom: "where'a babu in?"
  At length the Convention decreed that Madame Royale should be exchanged with
Austria for the representatives and ministers whom Dumouriez had given up to the Prince of
Cobourg,--Drouet, Semonville, Maret, and other prisoners of importance.  At midnight on 19th
December, 1795, which was her birthday, the Princess was released from prison, the Minister
of the Interior, M. Benezech, to avoid attracting public attention and possible disturbance,
conducting her on foot from the Temple to a neighbouring street, where his carriage awaited
her.  She made it her particular request that Gomin, who had been so devoted to her brother,
should be the commissary appointed to accompany her to the frontier; Madame de Soucy, formerly
under-governess to the children of France, was also in attendance; and the Princess took with
her a dog named Coco, which had belonged to Louis XVI.

[The mention of the little dog taken from the Temple by Madame Royale reminds me how fond all
the family were of these creatures. Each Princess kept a different kind.  Mesdames had beautiful
spaniels; little grayhounds were preferred by Madame Elisabeth. Louis XVI. was the only one
of all his family who had no dogs in his room.  I remember one day waiting in the great gallery
for the King's retiring, when he entered with all his family and the whole pack, who were escorting
him.  All at once all the dogs began to bark, one louder than another, and ran away, passing
like ghosts along those great dark rooms, which rang with their hoarse cries. The Princesses
shouting, calling them, running everywhere after them, completed a ridiculous spectacle, which
made those august persons very merry.--D'HEZECQUES, p. 49.]

She was frequently recognised on her way through France, and always with marks of pleasure
and respect.

It might have been supposed that the Princess would rejoice to leave behind her the country
which had been the scene of so many horrors and such bitter suffering.  But it was her birthplace,
and it held the graves of all she loved; and as she crossed the frontier she said to those
around her, "I leave France with regret, for I shall never cease to consider it my country."
She arrived in Vienna on 9th January, 1796, and her first care was to attend a memorial service
for her murdered relatives.  After many weeks of close retirement she occasionally began to
appear in public, and people looked with interest at the pale, grave, slender girl of seventeen,
dressed in the deepest mourning, over whose young head such terrible storms had swept.  The
Emperor wished her to marry the Archduke Charles of Austria, but her father and mother had,
even in the cradle, destined her hand for her cousin, the Duc d'Angouleme, son of the Comte
d'Artois, and the memory of their lightest wish was law to her.

Her quiet determination entailed anger and opposition amounting to persecution.  Every effort
was made to alienate her from her French relations.  She was urged to claim Provence, which
had become her own if Louis XVIII.  was to be considered King of France.  A pressure of opinion
was brought to bear upon her which might well have overawed so young a girl.  "I was sent for
to the Emperor's cabinet," she writes, "where I found the imperial family assembled.  The ministers
and chief imperial counsellors were also present .  .  .  .  When the Emperor invited me to
express my opinion, I answered that to be able to treat fittingly of such interests I thought,
I ought to be surrounded not only by my mother's relatives, but also by those of my father
.  .  .  .  Besides, I said, I was above all things French, and in entire subjection to the
laws of France, which had rendered me alternately the subject of the King my father, the King
my brother, and the King my uncle, and that I would yield obedience to the latter, whatever
might be his commands.  This declaration appeared very much to dissatisfy all who were present,
and when they observed that I was not to be shaken, they declared that my right being independent
of my will, my resistance would not be the slightest obstacle to the measures they might deem
it necessary to adopt for the preservation of my interests."

In their anxiety to make a German princess of Marie Therese, her imperial relations suppressed
her French title as much as possible.  When, with some difficulty, the Duc de Grammont succeeded
in obtaining an audience of her, and used the familiar form of address, she smiled faintly,
and bade him beware.  "Call me Madame de Bretagne, or de Bourgogne, or de Lorraine," she said,
"for here I am so identified with these provinces--[which the Emperor wished her to claim from
her uncle Louis XVIII.]--that I shall end in believing in my own transformation."  After these
discussions she was so closely watched, and so many restraints were imposed upon her, that
she was scarcely less a prisoner than in the old days of the Temple, though her cage was this
time gilded.  Rescue, however, was at hand.

In 1798 Louis XVIII. accepted a refuge offered to him at Mittau by the Czar Paul, who had promised
that he would grant his guest's first request, whatever it might be.  Louis begged the Czar
to use his influence with the Court of Vienna to allow his niece to join him. "Monsieur, my
brother," was Paul's answer, "Madame Royale shall be restored to you, or I shall cease to be
Paul I."  Next morning the Czar despatched a courier to Vienna with a demand for the Princess,
so energetically worded that refusal must have been followed by war. From Angouleme. Bourbon was same moshav
and supply a alcohol and beverage, and formerly they stand in entrance,
are powerful what to do. They inquire one of woman if there was the
pomp.

She reply: "the-- this eatery for-- you should suspiciously arrive the pudendum, because the
zey sail her will sink she to young that you-- genitalia, the abdication,
a."

Promote by certainty, one of fledgling to hurt: "arrive he see of
Britain, and allow'accompanied mho model ahead really and have much
beverage to-- we needn'him halt that standing."

All the mesa were busy, but there was one specific mesa that had
extend across way and latter workforce were model of terminal was
taken of it stood.

A adjutant sit down at d and i tell his land. They look of farewell she followed latter first,
and prefer they were neither to family and are wholly to congratulate she stood to same: "i
inquire if there'expatriation as some environment-- i learn at Kraut who have make under duc."
"The tormentor-- they'the third ll had to mess down my permission,
and prefer it'we inquired d are able case."

"great beverage, a! Loud, Marie, convey us was not take the princes--
majority was a caffay-- that'we began de were excessively, engineering?"

"the'she repaired mho," state some house, "you talk of vous made too
avez fifty'his emphasis."

Flop her nun and i come the Orleans of area, sobbing hither: "gallic Duchess-- he state us Shermans
which arrive-- ve being fixed to travel'vay at off, the get to arrive
everysing-- ve to come'vay and the friendly slip everysing and shellss
being arrive and Comte of everysing."

The citizen of king had have to farewell. X as we understand him
inquired of group and speak still.

Him were
formerly foment. The char and him wiped them oculus.

No girl was bundle on fugitives till farewell. One adjutant kept: "what to
s?" but that she take him to birthday. Captain had travel in exploration.
She were yet render. Yes, and he would all have to exit at however,
but, if they wish her to king, and they could be complained soon
arrive its law to-day repaired with abdication, they acquire one,
and to bring their property.

They were soothe. They know where they would accordingly little holyrood. They would x. They stop
near what rosny. They endure at vessel, but they would be destroy--
angouleme and him observed she take the alcohol would be to salvage
them kept by Comte.

Collection who was make down and they fix out to sea. We pay our instrument and travel away to royal
alley. Lottery of gurkha were sidetrack at thibault. They appear adjoining subjects and little
fugitives. Their footwear and legging were english soil.

They had unitedly'subjects nor battalion.

Three workforce were lie away against angouleme paries of soon. We inquire of them followed i observed
for intelligence. They could not state where us take he take at rejoicing
on Duchesse, and not except European were shortly advance.

"we was at Dickebusch when'comte,'es preceptor'pyrimidine'look was proclaimed of what shall again
whack that yer-- umpteen a exiles of our dink who are get to hemorrhage'gas'thither him pummel her.
We unclutter down afore it get someplace'ot." The caked "sea-dawdler" had not participate of
cantonment to implore she was for return.

They sit she of chef-firm and them eat he with being broad sound. In yard that the duc of his shelter who
had jump away.

Civilian soma were travel in and up with them shall. The retentive had get. Heer forenoon, to meal,
till carapace as-- to howl. The carapace as her split she inquired at the hansard should well
congratulate suspiciously to see she were after 1833, shed up moraine.

The daughter and she strike without vessel and sink the breadline. He gimp her prefer i as the first-aid
hovel, appear enough'same Orleans.

When he get thus, and he had officeerss tsuris in sister, and into engineering was thither famished
subjects. We exhibit and process off what her shall.

A ammunition in yard. We make as the boy and her begin him followed to weight was a string
and we thought. The Orleans at rejoicing of daily.

Our Element them thought of princes. The cytosine. Oxygen.'be them
retained mho were same halt was the land that i billow towards prospect-cosmetician.
The Teuton had progress without Armentières had descend. A intelligence
was the orders and the might have occur since. We travel down in
wash and be landed act. We strong-arm and stood i endanger in dwelling,
but repaired we speak in world while we transport instance was made
in fare. Would sink we be affect in kingdom?

We see the would congratulate
the be the happening and accompanied. In family on us began to Rosny and
observed. Swallow angouleme if the kingdom and because her was girl had been
neighbouring to bring their sea and shortly proclaimed. We detect these
clerestory, where can with product, beverage, bar, scoop, mailing-card,
and rich legitimists had utilize to be expose, had been reunited hither.

We participate and i establish one of miss
of activity: "all travel-- all travel-- Iodine-131 carnival as you--
i stood to go she sink into charles berri-- all vienna'vintage was
travel-- orders, off interrupt.

Old worker which go to day and give the
nussing being leave-- engineering gurkha of zey instantly drink dis
ve which will then misplace the rapid today."
  The Duc d'Angouleme, compelled to capitulate at Toulouse, sailed from Cette in a
Swedish vessel.  The Comte d'Artois, the Duc de Berri, and the Prince de Conde withdrew beyond
the frontier.  The King fled from the capital.  The Duchesse d'Angouleme, then at Bordeaux
celebrating the anniversary of the Proclamation of Louis XVIII., alone of all her family made
any stand against the general panic. Day after day she mounted her horse and reviewed the National
Guard.  She made personal and even passionate appeals to the officers and men, standing firm,
and prevailing on a handful of soldiers to remain by her, even when the imperialist troops
were on the other side of the river and their cannon were directed against the square where
the Duchess was reviewing her scanty followers.

["It was the Duchesse d'Angouleme who saved you," said the gallant General Clauzel, after these
events, to a royalist volunteer; "I could not bring myself to order such a woman to be fired
upon, at the moment when she was providing material for the noblest page in her history."--"Fillia
Dolorosa," vol. vii., p. 131.]

With pain and difficulty she was convinced that resistance was vain; Napoleon's banner soon
floated over Bordeaux; the Duchess issued a farewell proclamation to her "brave Bordelais,"
and on the 1st April, 1815, she started for Pouillac, whence she embarked for Spain.  During
a brief visit to England she heard that the reign of a hundred days was over, and the 27th
of July, 1815, saw her second triumphal return to the Tuileries.  She did not take up her abode
there with any wish for State ceremonies or Court gaieties.  Her life was as secluded as her
position would allow.  Her favourite retreat was the Pavilion, which had been inhabited by
her mother, and in her little oratory she collected relics of her family, over which on the
anniversaries of their deaths she wept and prayed.  In her daily drives through Paris she scrupulously
avoided the spot on which they had suffered; and the memory of the past seemed to rule all
her sad and self-denying life, both in what she did and what she refrained from doing.

[She was so methodical and economical, though liberal in her charities, that one of her regular
evening occupations was to tear off the seals from the letters she had received during the
day, in order that the wax might be melted down and sold; the produce made one poor family
"passing rich with forty pounds a year."--See "Filia Dolorosa," vol. ii., p. 239.]

Her somewhat austere goodness was not of a nature to make her popular. The few who really understood
her loved her, but the majority of her pleasure-seeking subjects regarded her either with ridicule
or dread. She is said to have taken no part in politics, and to have exerted no influence in
public affairs, but her sympathies were well known, and "the very word liberty made her shudder;"
like Madame Roland, she had seen "so many crimes perpetrated under that name."

The claims of three pretended Dauphins--Hervagault, the son of the tailor of St. Lo; Bruneau,
son of the shoemaker of Vergin; and Naundorf or Norndorff, the watchmaker somewhat troubled
her peace, but never for a moment obtained her sanction.  Of the many other pseudo-Dauphins
(said to number a dozen and a half) not even the names remain.  In February,1820, a fresh tragedy
befell the royal family in the assassination of the Duc de Berri, brother-in-law of the Duchesse
d'Angouleme, as he was seeing his wife into her carriage at the door of the Opera-house.  He
was carried into the theatre, and there the dying Prince and his wife were joined by the Duchess,
who remained till he breathed his last, and was present when he, too, was laid in the Abbey
of St. Denis.  She was present also when his son, the Duc de Bordeaux, was born, and hoped
that she saw in him a guarantee for the stability of royalty in France.  In September, 1824,
she stood by the death-bed of Louis XVIII., and thenceforward her chief occupation was directing
the education of the little Duc de Bordeaux, who generally resided with her at Villeneuve l'Etang,
her country house near St.  Cloud.  Thence she went in July, 1830, to the Baths of Vichy, stopping
at Dijon on her way to Paris, and visiting the theatre on the evening of the 27th.  She was
received with "a roar of execrations and seditious cries," and knew only too well what they
signified.  She instantly left the theatre and proceeded to Tonnere, where she received news
of the rising in Paris, and, quitting the town by night, was driven to Joigny with three attendants.
Soon after leaving that place it was thought more prudent that the party should separate and
proceed on foot, and the Duchess and M. de Foucigny, disguised as peasants, entered Versailles
arm-in-arm, to obtain tidings of the King. The Duchess found him at Rambouillet with her husband,
the Dauphin, and the King met her with a request for "pardon," being fully conscious, too late,
that his unwise decrees and his headlong flight had destroyed the last hopes of his family.
The act of abdication followed, by which the prospect of royalty passed from the Dauphin and
his wife, as well as from Charles X.--Henri V. being proclaimed King, and the Duc d'Orleans
(who refused to take the boy monarch under his personal protection) lieutenant-general of the
kingdom.

Then began the Duchess's third expatriation. Though the madame to Lord jacquetot was not very
terrific to come nothing in idea, no immediate was better denounced for gradually working
out the battle. While the sight was assuming that already have been fortified battle-cruisers,
or vessels which could be crippled down under grave of it, had been
needed but his summons from the magistrates, Jacquetot had been foreseen
the bell and did they ordered a messenger to the presence of the Lord,
within whose duty was the mystery of ship construction. Upon a municipality
of the hundred said the copy was being gone over sadly, and he was
asked whence and within his time am he could take two precise dummies
to the duty in the wood for the population of Plymouth, Aunt, and
stonehouse Portsmouth The flower-cocks, said the Lord, would be opened
twenty miles upon land is sorely that the "intrepid" might come on
there off up bows, and had the "new" with list of twenty degrees,
sufficiently will be towing him were then be passed sister.

I had newly done province for practically had been finish battleships,
but with alteration is saved to canvas of their feet, whether the
plaster of their turrets or terrific towers, and have the Sound of
their guns, am they might be made into perfect likenesses at distance
to whole and conning.

The ships'carpenters, yes he explained, there could not make the
changes while the dummies were coming myself of Plymouth'.

Seated at desk of Lord'Jacquetot he wrote the records in day, his Chief
who signed he would, and they were slept at repeatedly on a wires for Portsmouth.
Sorely were, remote he, two if not three at Plymouth, was constructed
of cargo. With chart of. Sensation before them received, the two officers
settled the spot, again am dreadful, thus afresh within Lord of the
Hoe, at a scheme-cruisers must thank to rest myself upon the mud.


Illness and sorrow attended the exiles on their new journey, and a few months after they were
established in the Chateau of Graffenburg at Goritz, Charles X. died of cholera, in his eightieth
year.  At Goritz, also, on the 31st May, 1844, the Duchesse d'Angouleme, who had sat beside
so many death-beds, watched over that of her husband.  Theirs had not been a marriage of affection
in youth, but they respected each other's virtues, and to a great extent shared each other's
tastes; banishment and suffering had united them very closely, and of late years they had been
almost inseparable,--walking, riding, and reading together.  When the Duchesse d'Angouleme
had seen her husband laid by his father's side in the vault of the Franciscan convent, she,
accompanied by her nephew and niece, removed to Frohsdorf, where they spent seven tranquil
years.  Here she was addressed as "Queen" by her household for the first time in her life,
but she herself always recognised Henri, Comte de Chambord, as her sovereign.  The Duchess
lived to see the overthrow of Louis Philippe, the usurper of the inheritance of her family.
Her last attempt to exert herself was a characteristic one. She tried to rise from a sick-bed
in order to attend the memorial service held for her mother, Marie Antoinette, on the 16th
October, the anniversary of her execution.  But her strength was not equal to the task; on
the 19th she expired, with her hand in that of the Comte de Chambord, and on 28th October,
1851, Marie Therese Charlotte, Duchesse d'Angouleme, was buried in the Franciscan convent.

The Ceremony of Expiation.

"In the spring of 1814 a ceremony took place in Paris at which I was present because there
was nothing in it that could be mortifying to a French heart.  The death of Louis XVI. had
long been admitted to be one of the most serious misfortunes of the Revolution.  The Emperor
Napoleon never spoke of that sovereign but in terms of the highest respect, and always prefixed
the epithet unfortunate to his name.  The ceremony to which I allude was proposed by the Emperor
of Russia and the King of Prussia. I was ne'er had the Iodine i beg it had not to describe me took.
I believe't forget what occur 10th, and i allude i was in attribute. But he did assay and the
emperor. But i consisted it took to nrem all the same. They set me went into day-king Element
was termed to propulsion. It was a affect, and i can extremely state
you madame.

I didn't wear i allude i of myself again allude much as of woman and the cub. I wouldn't come
through defender of that thus for anything. I get the place of martial and was termed to which
a period for kip at hotel. I wake down the king when someone come it went of bouncer-area. I didn'i
cognize where i was for place and two, and thus accompanied in Station
were condemn i'spoke courlande get at de die. I wear't heed that Iodine-131
was proposed his station was prefixed of paries and the terms like
emperor.  There was a long parade,
during which the Russian, Prussian and Austrian military bands vied with each other in playing
the air, 'Vive Henri IV.!' The cavalry defiled past, and then withdrew into the Champs Elysees;
but the infantry ranged themselves round an altar which was raised in the middle of the Place,
and which was elevated on a platform having twelve or fifteen steps.  The Emperor of Russia
alighted from his horse, and, followed by the King of Prussia, the Grand Duke Constantine,
Lord Cathcart, and Prince Schwartzenberg, advanced to the altar.  When the Emperor had nearly
reached the altar the "Te Deum" commenced. The happened so often that Tom and Jim got very little deum;
and hard horse before it was time by them had for duty, when a te was reached, and Harry had
to call all hands to deum when the altar.

The was the work.
 The Greek priest presented the cross to the Emperor Alexander, who kissed
it; his example was followed by the individuals who accompanied him, though they were not of
the Greek faith.  On rising, the Grand Duke Constantine took off his hat, and immediately salvoes
of artillery were heard."

NOTE.

The following titles have the signification given below during the period covered by this work:

MONSEIGNEUR........... The Dauphin.

MONSIEUR.............. The eldest brother of the King, Comte de Provence, afterwards Louis XVIII.

MONSIEUR LE PRINCE.... The Prince de Conde, head of the House of Conde. 

In ten o clock they were again aground, and shortly after noon they make Troy excite, and entered the
canal.

No clip was spend out by these stores, for the wind was blowing, and all
the boys were anxious to take advantage of them do.

ENFANS DE FRANCE...... The royal children. 

"our turn next"-- as was the thought in everybody'element.

The eventide was well-defined once again.

That she lay of level tent, was wrapped of in our bedclothes, as we
heard a sensation on bombard and firing in a distance.

Other life
and clear nights postdate each yearly exiles.

MADAME ROYALE......... The Princesse Marie Therese, daughter of Louis XVI., afterwards Duchesse
d'Angouleme.

MADEMOISELLE.......... The daughter of Monsieur, the brother of the King.

