 It is carried through troughs to some great tanks, and from these it flows into
"grain-settlers," then into the "grainers" proper, where the grains of salt settle. At the
bottom of the grainers are steam pipes, and these make the brine so hot that before long little
crystals of salt are seen floating on the surface of the water. Crystals form much better if
the water is perfectly smooth, and to bring this about a very little oil is poured into the
grainer. It spreads over the surface in the thinnest film that can be imagined. The water evaporates,
and the tiny crystals grow, one joining to another as they do in rock candy. When they become
larger, they drop to the bottom of the grainer. They are now swept along in a trough to a "pocket,"
carried up by an endless chain of buckets, and then wheeled away to the packinghouse.

The finest salt is made by using vacuum pans. These are great cans out of which the air is
pumped, and into which the brine flows. This brine, heated by steam pipes, begins to boil,
and as the steam from it rises, it has to pass through a pipe at the top and is thus carried
into a small tank into which cold water is flowing. The cold makes the steam condense into
water, which runs off. The condensed water occupies less space than the steam and so maintains
the vacuum in the pan. For a perfect vacuum the brine is boiled at less than 100° F., while
in an open pan or grainer it requires 226° to boil brine. The brine is soon so rich in salt
that tiny crystals begin to form. These are taken out and dried. If you look at some grains
of table salt through a magnifying glass, you can see that each grain is a tiny cubical crystal.
Sometimes two or three are united, and often the corners are rounded off and worn, but they
show plainly that they are little cubes.

Most of the salt used on our tables is made by the vacuum process or by an improved method
which produces tiny flakes of salt similar to snowflakes. The salt brine is heated to a high
temperature and filtered. In the filters the impurities are taken out, and this process gives
us very pure salt. The tiny flakes dissolve more easily than the cubes of salt, and thus flavor
food more readily.

With a few savage tribes salt is regarded as a great luxury, but with most peoples it is looked
upon as a necessity. Some of the early races thought a salt spring was a special gift of the
gods, and in their sacrifices they always used salt. In later times to sit "above the salt,"
between the great ornamental salt cellar and the master of the house, was a mark of honor.
Less distinguished guests were seated "below the salt." To "eat a man's salt" and then be unfaithful
to him has always been looked upon as a shameful act; and with some of the savages, so long
as a stranger "ate his salt,"--that is, was a guest in the house of any one of them,--he was
safe. Neither does he only make a high Sheriff of himself, as chains appearing to the front with
his waistcoat, or much pistols, seals, or trinketry dangling ever his waistband, if little of over
say, "as you below knew what a watch I have indoors!" To take a story or a statement
"with a grain of salt" means not to accept it entirely, but only to believe it partially. When
Christ told his disciples that they were "the salt of the earth," he meant that their lives
and teaching would influence others just as salt affects every article of food and changes
its flavor. Our word "salary" comes from the Latin word sal, meaning salt; and salarium, or
"salt-money," was money given for paying one's expenses on a journey. Living without salt would
be a difficult matter. Cattle that have been shut away from it for a while are almost wild
to get it. Farmers living among the mountains sometimes drive their cattle to a mountain pasture
to remain there through the summer, and every little while they go up to salt the animals.
The cattle know the call and know that it means salt; and I have seen them come rushing down
the mountain-side and through the woods, over fallen trees, through briers, and down slippery
rocks, bellowing as they came, and plunging head first in a wild frenzy to get to the pieces
of rock salt that were waiting for them.

       *       *       *       *       *

FIRST YEAR IN NUMBER

35 cents net. Postpaid

An Introductory Book to Precede any Series of Arithmetics

BY

FRANKLIN S. HOYT

Formerly Assistant Superintendent of Schools, Indianapolis

AND

HARRIET E. PEET

Instructor in Methods of Teaching Arithmetic, State Normal School, Salem, Massachusetts

The work is based upon the familiar experiences and activities of children, and follows as
closely as possible the child's own method of acquiring new knowledge and skill.

Thus we have lessons based on playing store, making tickets, mailing letters, fishing, etc.
Every step is made interesting, but no time is wasted in mere entertainment. Their socialized
point of view--all problems and topics taken from the everyday life of children, home interests,
community interests, common business and industries. 2. Their attractiveness to children--spirited
illustrations, legible page, interesting subject matter. 3. The omission of all antiquated
topics and problems. 4. The grouping of problems about a given life situation. 5. The development
of accuracy and skill in essential processes. 6. The vocational studies. 7. The careful attention
to method. 8. The exact grading. 9. The systematic reviews. 10. The adaptation to quick and
to slow pupils. 

       For example, and on Thursdays and Sundays he shaving and puts on shirt,
which he exhibits as freely as clean Cakes to glory by wit: Mondays and
Fridays you will know of an vegetating of his africa, and eat the disappearance
of the garment cuffs and salt. Formerly Principal of the Wealthy Avenue Public School,
Grand Rapids, Mich.

ASSISTED BY

FRANCES JENKINS

Instructor in Elementary Education, College for Teachers, University of Cincinnati, Formerly
Supervisor of Elementary Grades, Decatur, Ill.

ILLUSTRATED BY

RUTH MARY HALLOCK MAGINEL WRIGHT ENRIGHT CLARA E. ATWOOD E. BOYD SMITH HOWARD PYLE, and other
notable artists

FRESH MATERIAL

These Readers contain an unusually large amount of fresh copyrighted material taken from the
world's best literature for children.

LATEST TEACHING METHODS

They represent the latest developments in the methods of teaching reading, the kind of teaching
that will be found in the best schools of to-day.

ARTISTIC MAKE-UP

Artistically the books will set a new standard in text-book making. The colored Illustrations
of the primary books are particularly attractive.

MECHANICAL FEATURES

The paper used in the books, the type for each grade, and the dimensions and arrangement of
the type page were all determined by careful experimenting, in order to safeguard the eyesight
of children.

Send for complete illustrated circular describing the unique plan of this series.

PRICES

Primer              30 cents, net. First Reader        35 cents, net. Second Reader       40
cents, net. Third Reader        50 cents, net. Fourth Reader       55 cents, net. Fifth Reader
55 cents, net. Sixth Reader        55 cents, net. Seventh Reader      55 cents, net.