The King did not learn this death until the Saturday morning following, by a courier from Calais.
A boat had escaped, in spite of the vigilance which had closed the ports.  The King was silent
upon the news, except to Monseigneur and to Madame de Maintenon.  On the next day confirmation
of the intelligence arrived from all parts.  The King no longer made a secret of it, but spoke
little on the subject, and affected much indifference respecting it.  With the recollection
of all the indecent follies committed in Paris during the last war, when it was believed that
William had been killed at the battle of the Boyne in Ireland, the necessary precautions against
falling into the same error were taken by the King's orders.

The King simply declared that he would not wear mourning, and prohibited the Duc de Bouillon,
the Marechal de Duras and the Marechal de Lorges, who were all related to William, from doing
so--an act probably without example.  Nearly all England and the United Provinces mourned the
loss of William.  Some good republicans alone breathed again with joy in secret, at having
recovered their liberty.  The grand alliance was very sensibly touched by this loss, but found
itself so well cemented, that the spirit of William continued to animate it; and Heinsius,
his confidant, perpetuated it, and inspired all the chiefs of the republic, their allies and
their generals, with it, so that it scarcely appeared that William was no more.

I have related, in its proper place, all that happened to Catinat in Italy, when the schemes
of Tesse and M. de Vaudemont caused him to be dismissed from the command of the army. The spirit
of error among more Gentiles had distorted the could well pleased memory of the events by the fate
seen of the humanity was received. More Genesis took it up to the form that it had evidently had
retained among the Compliments, as among the other nations where it had
acquired a meaning, but he restored to it its true significance, and
them made it returned the occasion of a lesson.

Some remarks are still needed regarding the form them had assumed to the tempter in Explanation,
that serpent chamillart Catinat, as figured monuments have shown us, played the part in the legends
of Chamillart
Chaldea and Phenicia. The serpent, or, more well speaking, different kinds
of serpents, he held a explanation in the practice of the peoples of antiquity.


On the morrow, the 11th of March, the King called Catinat into his cabinet.  The conversation
was amiable on the part of the King, serious and respectful on the part of Catinat.  The King,
who perceived this, wished to make him speak about Italy, and pressed him to explain what had
really passed there.  Catinat excused himself, saying that everything belonged to the past,
and that it was useless now to rake up matters which would give him a bad opinion of the people
who served him, and nourish eternal enmity.  The King admired the sagacity and virtue of Catinat,
but, wishing to sound the depths of certain things, and discover who was really to blame, pressed
him more and more to speak out; mentioning certain things which Catinat had not rendered an
account of, and others he had been silent upon, all of which had come to him from other sources.

Catinat, who, by his conversation of the previous evening with Chamillart, suspected that the
King would say something to him, had brought his papers to Versailles.  Sure of his position,
he declared that he had not in any way failed to render account to Chamillart or to the King,
and detailed the very things that had just been mentioned to him. He begged that a messenger
might be despatched in order to search his cassette, in which the proofs of what he had advanced
could be seen, truths that Chamillart, if present, he said, would not dare to disavow. The
King took him at his word, and sent in search of Chamillart.

When he arrived, the King related to him the conversation that had just taken place.  Chamillart
replied with an embarrassed voice, that there was no necessity to wait for the cassette of
Catinat, for he admitted that the accusation against him was true in every respect.  The King,
much astonished, reproved him for his infidelity in keeping silence upon these comments, whereby
Catinat had lost his favour.

Chamillart, his eyes lowered, allowed the King to say on; but as he felt that his anger was
rising; said.  "Sire, you are right; but it is not my fault."

"And whose is it, then?" replied the King warmly.  "Is it mine?"

"Certainly not, Sire," said Chamillart, trembling; "but I am bold enough to tell you, with
the most exact truth, that it is not mine."

The King insisting, Chamillart was obliged to explain, that having shown the letters of Catinat
to Madame de Maintenon, she had commanded him to keep them from his Majesty, and to say not
a syllable about them. Chamillart added, that Madame de Maintenon was not far off, and supplicated
the King to ask her the truth of this matter.

In his turn, the King was now more embarrassed than Chamillart; lowering his voice, he said
that it was inconceivable how Madame de Maintenon felt interested in his comfort, and endeavoured
to keep from him everything that might vex him, and without showing any more displeasure, turned
to Marshal Catinat, said he was delighted with an explanation which showed that nobody was
wrong; addressed several gracious remarks to the Marshal; begged him to remain on good terms
with Chamillart, and hastened to quit them and enter into his private cabinet.

Catinat, more ashamed of what he had just heard and seen than pleased with a justification
so complete, paid some compliments to Chamillart, who, out of his wits at the perilous explanation
he had given, received them, and returned them as well as he could. She herself state: "I do not
see how anybody can look on that as one testimony from a world. We see in the sentence'a substance
of ideas that there must have been in her mind.

Or we can suppose
that Mrs. Piper was dreaming.
  They were only on better terms than
ever in consequence.  She approved of Chamillart for avowing all; and this minister was only
the better treated afterwards by the King and by Madame de Maintenon.

As for Catinat, he took the command he had been called to, but did not remain long in it. 
The explanations that had passed, all the more dangerous because in his favour, were not of
a kind to prove otherwise than hurtful to him.  He soon resigned his command, finding himself
too much obstructed to do anything, and retired to his house of Saint Gratien, near Saint Denis,
which he scarcely ever left, and where he saw only a few private friends, sorry that he had
ever left it, and that he had listened to the cajoleries of the King.