"It is well known that no person who regards his reputation will ever kill a trout with anything
but a fly. It requires some training on the part of the trout to take to this method. The uncultivated
trout in unfrequented waters prefers the bait; and the rural people, whose sole object in going
a-fishing appears to be to catch fish, indulge them in their primitive state for the worm.
No sportsman, however, will use anything but a fly except he happens to be alone." Speaking
of rods, he says:

"The rod is a bamboo weighing seven ounces, which has to be spliced with a winding of silk
thread every time it is used. This is a tedious process; but, by fastening the joints in this
way, a uniform spring is secured in the rod. No one devoted to high art would think of using
a socket joint."

One summer during a seven weeks' tour in the Northern Wilderness, my only rod was a 7 1/2 foot
Henshall. It came to hand with two bait-tips only; but I added a fly-tip and it made an excellent
"general fishing rod." With it I could handle a large bass or pickerel; it was a capital bait-rod
for brook trout; as fly-rod it has pleased me well enough. It is likely to go with me again.
For reel casting, the 5 1/2 foot rod is handier. But it is not yet decided which is best and
I leave every man his own opinion. Only, I think one rod enough, but have always had more.

And don't neglect to take what sailors call a "ditty-bag." This may be a little sack of chamois
leather about 4 inches wide by 6 inches in length. Mine is before me as I write. Emptying the
contents, I find it inventories as follows: A dozen hooks, running in size from small minnow
hooks to large Limericks; four lines of six yards each, varying from the finest to a size sufficient
for a ten-pound fish; three darning needles and a few common sewing needles; a dozen buttons;
sewing silk; thread and a small ball of strong yarn for darning socks; sticking salve; a bit
of shoemaker's wax; beeswax; sinkers and a very fine file for sharpening hooks. The ditty-bag
weighs, with contents, 2 1/2 ounces; and it goes in a small buckskin bullet pouch, which I
wear almost as constantly as my hat. The pouch has a sheath strongly sewed on the back side
of it, where the light hunting knife is always at hand, and it also carries a two-ounce vial
of fly medicine, a vial of "pain killer," and two or three gangs of hooks on brass wire snells--of
which, more in another place. I can always go down into that pouch for a waterproof match safe,
strings, compass, bits of linen and scarlet flannel (for frogging), copper tacks and other
light duffle. It is about as handy a piece of woods-kit as I carry.

I hope no aesthetic devotee of the fly-rod will lay down the book in disgust when I confess
to a weakness for frogging. I admit that it is not high-toned sport; and yet I have got a good
deal of amusement out of it. The persistence with which a large batrachian will snap at a bit
of red flannel after being several times hooked on the same lure and the comical way in which
he will scuttle off with a quick succession of short jumps after each release; the cheerful
manner in which, after each bout, he will tune up his deep, bass pipe--ready for another greedy
snap at an ibis fly or red rag is rather funny. And his hind legs, rolled in meal and nicely
browned, are preferable to trout or venison.

CHAPTER III Getting Lost--Camping Out--Roughing It Or Smoothing It--Insects--Camps, And How
To Make Them

WITH a large majority of prospective tourists and outers, "camping out" is a leading factor
in the summer vacation. And during the long winter months they are prone to collect in little
knots and talk much of camps, fishing, hunting and "roughing it." The last phrase is very popular
and always cropping out in the talks on matters pertaining to a vacation in the woods. I dislike
the phrase. We do not go to the green woods and crystal waters to rough it, we go to smooth
it. We get it rough enough at home; in towns and cities; in shops, offices, stores, banks anywhere
that we may be placed--with the necessity always present of being on time and up to our work;
of providing for the dependent ones; of keeping up, catching up, or getting left. "Alas for
the lifelong battle, whose bravest slogan is bread."

As for the few fortunate ones who have no call to take a hand in any strife or struggle, who
not only have all the time there is, but a great deal that they cannot dispose of with any
satisfaction to themselves or anybody else--I am not writing for them; but only to those of
the world's workers who go, or would like to go, every summer to the woods. And to these I
would say, don't rough it; make it as smooth, as restful and pleasurable as you can.

To this end you need pleasant days and peaceful nights. You cannot afford to be tormented and
poisoned by insects, nor kept awake at night by cold and damp, nor to exhaust your strength
by hard tramps and heavy loads. Take it easy and always keep cool. Nine men out of ten, on
finding themselves lost in the woods, fly into a panic and quarrel with the compass. Never
do that. The compass is always right, or nearly so. It is not many years since an able-bodied
man--sportsman of course--lost his way in the North Woods and took fright, as might be expected.
He was well armed and well found for a week in the woods. What ought to have been only an interesting
adventure, became a tragedy. He tore through thickets and swamps in his senseless panic, until
he dropped and died through fright, hunger and exhaustion.

A well authenticated story is told of a guide in the Oswegatchie region, who perished in the
same way. Guides are not infallible; I have known more than one to get lost. Wherefore, should
you be tramping through a pathless forest on a cloudy day, and should the sun suddenly break
from under a cloud in the northwest about noon, don't be scared. The last day is not at hand
and the planets have not become mixed; only, you are turned. You have gradually swung around,
until you are facing northwest when you meant to travel south. It has a muddling effect on
the mind--this getting lost in the woods. But, if you can collect and arrange your gray brain
matter and suppress all panicky feeling, it is easily got along with. For instance; it is morally
certain that you commenced swinging to southwest, then west, to northwest. Had you kept on
until you were heading directly north, you could rectify your course simply by following a
true south course. But, as you have varied three-eighths of the circle, set your compass and
travel by it to the southeast, until, in your judgment, you have about made up the deviation;
then go straight south and you will not be far wrong. Carry the compass in your hand and look
at it every few minutes; for the tendency to swerve from a straight course when a man is once
lost--and nearly always to the right--is a thing past understanding.

As regards poisonous insects, it may be said that, to the man with clean, bleached, tender
skin, they are, at the start, an unendurable torment. No one can enjoy life with a smarting,
burning, swollen face, while the attacks on every exposed inch of skin are persistent and constant.
I have seen a young man after two days' exposure to these pests come out of the woods with
one eye entirely closed and the brow hanging over it like a clam shell, while face and hands
were almost hideous from inflammation and puffiness. The St. Regis and St. Francis Indians,
although born and reared in the woods, by no means make light of the black fly.

