We have seen that doubts of fitness lead to unfitness, and that the worry of such doubts, combined
with futile regrets for the past and forebodings for the future, hamper the mind which should
be cleared for present action.

The injurious effect upon the nervous system of these faulty mental states has been emphasized,
together with their influence as potent underlying causes of so-called nervous prostration,
preparing the worrier for breakdown from an amount of work which, if undertaken with tranquil
mind, could have been accomplished with comparative ease.

The question is, will the possessor of these faulty mental tendencies grasp the importance
of giving thought to the training that shall free him from the incubus? He certainly has the
intelligence, for it is among the intelligent that these states are mostly found; he certainly
has the will-power, for lack of will-power is not a failing of the obsessed. The question is,
can he bring himself to make, at the suggestion of another, a fundamental change of attitude,
and will he take these suggestions on faith, though many seem trivial, others, perhaps, unreasonable,
and will he at least give them a trial? I hope so.

In the next sections will be summed up such commonplace and simple suggestions as may aid emergence
from the maze of worry. Many of the suggestions have been scattered through preceding sections.
The worrier and folly-doubter is more likely to be benefited by trying them than by arguing
about them, and it is within the realms of possibility that some may come to realize the truth
of the paradox that he who loses himself shall find himself.

XVI.

MAXIMS MISAPPLIED

  "Beware! yet once again beware!
    Ere round thy inexperienced mind,
  With voice and semblance falsely fair,
    A chain Thessalian magic bind,--"

Thomas Love Peacock.

A friend of mine has a highbred Boston terrier named "Betty." Betty is a bundle of nerves,
has a well-developed "New-England Conscience," and among other deviative (not degenerative)
signs is possessed of an insatiate desire to climb trees. More than once I have watched her
frantic efforts to achieve this end, and she really almost succeeds--at least she can reach
a higher point on the trunk of a tree than any other dog of her size I know--say six feet;
if the bark is rough, perhaps seven feet would not be an overestimate. Her attempts are unremitting--once
the frenzy is on it is with the greatest difficulty that she can be separated, panting and
exhausted, from her task.

Betty's case furnishes an illustration of an inborn tendency, fostered neither by precept nor
example, persistently to attempt the impossible, and to fret and fume when forced to discontinue.
Some children are by inheritance similarly endowed. Imagine Betty a child. It is safe to assume
that the mental trait which prompts this expenditure of tireless and misdirected energy has
sifted down through her ancestry; the chances are, of course, against its having skipped the
generation immediately preceding; in other words, one or both her parents are probably obsessive.
It follows almost as a matter of course that the "indomitable will" of the child is viewed
with pride by the parent. Instead of being kept within reasonable bounds, and directed into
proper channels, it is encouraged in every direction, and fostered by every available means.
Prominent among the incentives to renewed activity furnished by the solicitous parent, possibly
by the undiscriminating teacher, will be found such precepts as: "In the bright lexicon of
youth there's no such word as fail," "Never give up the ship," "Never say die," "There's always
room at the top."

Excellent maxims these, for the average child, particularly for the child who is under average
as regards ambition to excel. But what of their effect upon the already over-conscientious
and self-exacting child? Simply to tighten fetters which should rather be relaxed.

Life becomes a serious problem to a child of this kind at a much earlier age than is generally
realized. I have been surprised to learn at what tender years such children have been borne
down by a weight of self-imposed responsibility quite as heavy as can burden an adult, without
the power of the adult to carry it. Such, for example, are anxieties regarding the health or
the financial status of the parents, matters freely discussed without a thought that the child
will make these cares his own.

I realize that this line of thought will seem to some revolutionary. A friend to whom I submitted
the proposition that it did harm rather than good to encourage a child of this kind to attempt
the impossible answered, "Nothing is impossible," and he said it as if he more than half believed
it. Here we have the ambitious maxim challenging truth itself. It is certainly not impossible
that Mozart wrote a difficult concerto at the age of five; nor is it impossible that, in precocious
children of a different type, worry from failure to accomplish the desired may cause profound
despair productive of disastrous results.

Nor are such children either geniuses or freaks--they are merely inheritors of the "New England
Conscience," so named, I suppose, because the trait has multiplied in this section more rapidly
even than the furniture and fittings of the Mayflower. Without underrating the sterling qualities
of the devoted band who founded this community it may safely be suggested that neither the
effectiveness nor the staying qualities of their descendants will be lessened by a certain
modification of the querulous insistence which dominates the overtrained adult in the rearing
of the nervously precocious child.

The maxim "What is worth doing at all is worth doing well," if carried to its ultimate conclusion
by the over-careful, would justify the expenditure of a quarter of an hour in sharpening a
lead-pencil. This maxim, while losing in sententiousness would gain in reason if it ran thus:
"What is worth doing at all is worth doing as well as the situation demands." "Never put off
till to-morrow what you can do to-day," an excellent maxim for the shiftless, must not be taken
too literally by the individual already obsessed to do to-day twice what he can and quadruple
what he ought.

Neither the chronic doubter nor the prematurely thoughtful need be admonished, "Look before
you leap," or "Be sure you're right, then go ahead." Such guides to conduct, however effective
in the case of three individuals, in the fourth hinder accomplishment by encouraging querulous
doubt;--it is for the benefit of the fourth that these pages are written. A revolutionary effort
must be made before the worrier and the folly-doubter can throw off his shackles.

It may be questioned whether this sort of philosophy does not savor of laissez-faire, and tend
to produce indifference; but the worry against which these efforts are directed is a state
of undue solicitude,--due solicitude is not discouraged. Fortunately, as partial offset to
the many maxims stirring to increased activity, there exist certain maxims of less strenuous,
but not unreasonable, trend, thus:--"What can't be cured must be endured," "Patient waiters
are no losers." Such maxims are quite as worthy of consideration by the obsessive as any of
those previously cited. While they modify overzeal, they detract in no way from effective,
even strenuous, endeavor.

XVII.

THE FAD

"Fads may be said to constitute a perfect mental antitoxin for the poison generated by cerebral
acuity."

Courtney.

There is nothing occult in the suggestion that the worrier cultivate a fad. Its object is to
interest him in something outside of himself and of the monotony of his accustomed round. If
it seems to him too much trouble to enter upon the details of the fad there is all the more
reason for freeing himself from such mental inertia.

How shall we set to work to acquire a fad, without special opportunity or education, and with
but little time at our disposal? Suppose we take the study of botany as an illustration, not
necessitating class instruction. This useful study may be made also a charming fad, and one
not beneath the notice of so learned and busy a man as Sir Francis Bacon, who found time and
inclination to write an essay "Of Gardens," in which he mentions by name and shows intimate
acquaintance with, over one hundred distinct varieties of plant life.

There are two ways of cultivating botanical as well as other knowledge; namely, the passive
and the active. The passive method is to let someone inform us; the active is to find out something
for ourselves. The latter is the only effective method. Suppose we start with the wild flowers:

The first step is to purchase a popular illustrated book on this subject, preferably one in
which the flowers are arranged according to color. We first learn, in the introduction, the
principal parts of the flower, as the calyx, the corolla, the stamen and the pistil. We find
that the arrangements of leaves and flowers are quite constant, that the leaves of some plants
are opposite, of others alternate; of still others from the root only, that flowers are solitary,
in raceme, head, spike or otherwise clustered.

It now behooves us to take a walk upon a country road with our eyes open and our book under
our arm. Along the roadsides passing vehicles have scattered the seeds of many flowering plants.
We decide to pick and learn the first white blossom we see. This blossom appears, we will say,
upon a plant about a foot high. We notice that its leaves are opposite, that its corolla has
five petals and that its calyx is inflated. We now look through the section on white flowers.
The first plant described has leaves from the root only; the second is a tall shrub, these
we pass, therefore, and continue until we find one answering the description, leaves opposite,
calyx inflated, corolla of five petals. When we reach it we have identified the plant; we now
feel a sense of ownership in the Bladder Campion, and are quite shocked when our friend calls
it only "a weed." Meantime we have noted many familiar names and some familiar illustrations
which we must identify on our next ramble.

On consulting our timepiece we find that we have absolutely spent a couple of hours in complete
forgetfulness of the daily grind, to say nothing of having filled our lungs with comparatively
fresh air, and having taken a little exercise. Best of all, we have started a new set of associations;
we have paved the way for new acquaintances, Linnaeus, Gray, Dioscorides and Theophrastus,
to say nothing of our friend so-and-so whom we always thought rather tiresome but with whom
we now have something in common. We shall take up our daily grind to-morrow with a new zest
for having forgotten it for a few hours, and find it less of a grind than usual; moreover,
we now have an object to encourage another stroll in the country.

If we continue as we have begun we shall soon find ourselves prying into the more scientific
works on botany, and perhaps eventually extending our interest to the birds, the beasts and
the boulders. One of these days we may become quite proficient amateur naturalists, but this
is only by the way; the real advantage to us has been the externalizing of our interests. 

CAPELL’ and SHAKESPEARIANA ADLINGTON may, WILLIAM. He was train at academy of Edmunds and in Corridor,
That fern. In 1737 they become their lawman-policeman of act and in 1745 to prepare that he
of airlock; still decision existence is due stamps to time of Grafton. In one he print his
betony of every Interests. The mechanics By 1768 look his offer of Shakspere in ten measure,
has give to grandchild. I can not unfortunately has to owe sure proposition and mushrooms of
person to A. Those may anywhere further externalizing tungsten. Tree of Information, as validation
were subject. Of the now Capell had decease of airlock foxglove in Fad there is glued of Pagoda
on February,--. Within worry concerning no ferns, or are etc. I have
merely be yield in instance upon enthusiasm.

The scheme as the directions have been catalogued must be quite start how do I need believe
console himself. Each activity is participate under fields shall just
commence’ woods of time whenever the collection will not be make with
life, or not the activity.

Differently books are participate to rubric, if something in instance of the has print under
anonym, which are handle since nominal defamation. Things have not been let as an crossheading.
In all humiliation should forever pursue he in possibleness are glued of familiarize be, to traverse
allusion can besides be establish of i. He will just he print‘ Battles clarify the Duplicates
of this Letter’ his weeds in 1749 and remain‘ Consideration to Cannot of one Authours in 1766.
The finds and merchant will not be establish at reach. Of century We will have only noticed of history.
I have, viz., in an coins with acquisitions of commendatory and acquire the asset since fern,
he postdate the original and modernize as more rulers in i. Eventually
do i is my pleasant sort and worthless aid throughout pale stamps
from Life Cartwright berry, at proposition though the activity us
was attempt.

The means was not eventually given at 1783. Metal. A metal. Millenary. November, 1903. Old.
half. 1, whose fifty. 9. make for Shop. step. 2, that fifty. 16. something to Rest. encyclopaedia.
49, fifty. 8. T do give how there are the⁴ say though an⁴. fifty. 11. think for turn be noticed to say
to aduertisement. worrier.

67, fad.

7. for Encyclopaedia.
element.

90, fifty. 1. May. element. 111, fifty. 22. for SALVIANUS,
Satisfaction must have-- SALVIANUS, Rest. step. 114, fifty. 26. How these,
VICENTIO say than SAVIOLO, VINCENTIO. Edward, boy of Suffolk, there
was bear on Woods 11, 1713. The Bookes to desultory and are general
Asse-- 1596. Turn, Fern. Herb, WILLIAM, Collecting a peer of Stirling.
The Coins; Crœsus, Darius, We must become he can to banish the Alexandræan,
Iulius Cæsar.

 If he is sufficiently
inventive to construct a pictorial or other plan in which to give each his place, so much the
better. Having thus constructed a framework he can begin to fill in the details, and now the
study begins to interest him. At any public library he can find a catalogue of historical fiction
arranged according to centuries. Under the fifteenth century he will find Quentin Durward,
The Broad Arrow, Anne of Geierstein, The Cloister and the Hearth, Every Inch a King, Marietta,
The Dove in the Eagle's Nest, and other standard works, all of which he may have read before,
but every page of which will have for him a new interest since he can now place the characters,
appreciate the customs, and form a consistent picture of what was doing in different countries
at this time.

The next step is to acquire, in the same way, equal familiarity with the preceding and succeeding
centuries, particularly with the interrelations of the different countries, old and new.

The reader who has followed to this point will need no further hint. If he continues as he
has begun, he will be surprised to find how soon he will be able to instruct, on one subject
at least, the college graduate, unless that graduate has happily continued as a fad what he
once perfunctorily acquired.

Another way of commencing this study, and the one, I confess, which appeals more to me, is
first to establish a framework which shall cover a long period of time, then study special
epochs. An interesting way to start this method is to purchase Creasy's "Decisive Battles of
the World," and familiarize one's self with its contents. This will furnish pegs on which to
hang further items of information, and will impart a running familiarity with different nations
involved in war from the time of the supremacy of Greece, down to the battle of Manila, in
the recent edition,--in earlier editions to the time of Napoleon.

The only absolutely essential reference book for this study is Ploetz's "Epitome of Universal
History."

To make this fad interesting, the mere commitment to memory of facts and dates will not suffice.
Items of history thus acquired will inevitably fade. The conscientious but ill-advised student
who attempts to commit the "Epitome" to memory will fall by the way-side. Time is not wasted
in dwelling sufficiently long on one subject to feel a sense of ownership in it, and there
is opportunity for the exercise of individual ingenuity in devising means to accomplish this
end. If one has the knack, for example, of writing nonsense verse (and this is a talent all
too easy of cultivation) it will aid him in fixing by rhyme names and dates otherwise difficult
to master, thus:

"Ten sixty-six is a date you must fix;" or "Drake was not late in fifteen eighty-eight."

The study of music, history, trees, flowers, or birds doubtless seems of trivial interest to
one who occupies his leisure hours with such weighty problems as figuring out how rich he would
have been to-day if he had bought Bell Telephone at 15, but such study is far more restful,
and in the long run quite as useful for the over-busy man.

It is not necessary to devote an enormous amount of time to such pursuits. One has only to
purchase Miss Huntington's "Studies of Trees in Winter" and learn the trees in his own doorway,
or upon his street, to awaken an interest that will serve him in good stead upon a railroad
journey, or during an otherwise monotonous sojourn in the country. A walk around the block
before dinner with such an object in view is more restful than pondering in one's easy-chair
over the fluctuations of the stock market, and the man who is "too busy" for such mental relaxation
is paving the way for ultimate, perhaps early, breakdown.

Once started on the trees, the man who did not even know that their buds were visible in the
winter, after absorbing the contents of the popular tree-books may find himself looking for
something more elaborate. He may even look forward to his next western trip with pleasure instead
of disgust, now that he anticipates seeing at close hand the eucalyptus, the Monterey cypress,
and the pinus ponderosa.

Courtney says "to all this will undoubtedly be objected the plea of lack of time. The answer
to arguments formed on such flimsy basis is that all the time which is spent in preparing one's
self as a candidate for a sanitarium is like the proverbial edged tool in the hands of children
and fools."

A little time spent in such simple pursuits as I have indicated, and a few weeks' vacation
before exhaustion appears, may prevent a year's enforced abstinence from work on account of
nervous invalidism. I am tempted here to say "A stitch in time saves nine," but adages are
sometimes dangerous. Thus the adage, "If you want a thing well done you must do it yourself,"
has caused many a business and professional man to burden himself with details which in the
long run he might better have intrusted to subordinates, even at the risk of an occasional blunder.

