THE DOZEN FROM LAKERIM

By RUPERT HUGHES

Author of "The Lakerim Athletic Club"

WITH ILLUSTRATIONS BY C.M. RELYEA

1899.

          TO THE BEST
           *Father*
         A BOY EVER HAD
     (EXCEPT POSSIBLY YOURS)
BELONGS THE DEDICATION OF THIS STORY
     OF LIFE AT AN ACADEMY,
  SINCE HIS GOODNESS ENABLED ME
     TO KNOW IT AND WRITE IT

NOTE

About half of this book was published serially in "St. Nicholas." The rest of it is here printed
for the first time. If in this story of life at a preparatory school I have neglected to say
very much about books and studies, and have stuck to far less interesting matters, such as
the games and gambols that while away the dull hours between classes, I hope my readers will
graciously forgive the omission.

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

IT WAS EVIDENT THAT A SEVERE STRUGGLE HAD TAKEN PLACE

"STOP THE TRAIN AND WAIT FOR ME. I'M GOING TO KINGSTON, TOO!"

TUG IS TREATED TO A LITTLE SURPRISE-PARTY

QUIZ LEARNED TO SHOOT THE HILLS AT A BREATHLESS RATE

JUMBO SAW A PAIR OF FLASHING EYES GLARING AT HIM OVER THE COVERLET

PRETTY AND ENID

THE CROSS-COUNTRY RUN

THE BOXING-MATCH

TIED UP LIKE DUMMIES IN SACKS

"STRIKER--OUT!"

BURNING THE BOOKS

THE DOZEN FROM LAKERIM

I

Some people think it great fun to build a house of cards slowly and anxiously, and then knock
it to pieces with one little snip of the finger. Or to fix up a snow man in fine style and
watch a sudden thaw melt him out of sight. Or to write a name carefully, like a copy-book,
and with many curlicues, in the wet sand, and then scamper off and let the first high wave
smooth it away as a boy's sponge wipes from his slate some such marvelous statement as, 12
× 12 = 120, or 384 ÷ 16 gives a "koshunt" of 25. When such things are erased it doesn't much
matter; but there are occasions when it hurts to have Father Time come along and blot out the
work you have taken great pains with and have put your heart into. Twelve young gentlemen in
the town of Lakerim were feeling decidedly blue over just such an occasion.

You may not find the town of Lakerim on the map in your geography. And yet it was very well
known to the people that lived in it. And the Lakerim Athletic Club was very well known to
those same people. And the Lakerim Athletic Club, or, at least the twelve founders of the club,
were as blue as the June sky, because it seemed to them that Father Time--old Granddaddy Longlegs
that he is--was playing a mean trick on them.

For hadn't they given all their brain and muscle to building up an athletic club that should
be a credit to the town and a terror to outsiders! And hadn't they given up every free hour
for two years to working like Trojans? though, for that matter, who ever heard of any work
the Trojans ever did that amounted to anything--except the spending of ten years in getting
themselves badly defeated by a big wooden hobby-horse?

But while all of the Dozen were deep in the dumps, and had their brows tied up like a neglected
fish-line, the loudest complaint was made, of course, by the one who had done the least work
in building up the club--a lazybones who had been born tired, and had spent most of his young
life in industriously earning for himself the name of "Sleepy."

"It's a dad-ratted shame," growled he, "for you fellows to go and leave the club in the lurch
this way, after all the trouble we have had organizing it."

"Yes," assented another, who was called "B.J." because he had jumped from a high bridge once
too often, and who read wild Western romances more than was good for his peace of mind or his
conversation; "it kind of looks as if you fellows were renegades to the cause."

None of the Twelve knew exactly what a renegade was, but it sounded unpleasant, and the men
to whom the term was applied lost their tempers, and volunteered to clean out the club-room
where they all sat for two cents.

But the offenders either thought they could have more fun for less money, or hadn't the money,
for they changed their tune, and the debate went on in a more peaceful manner.

The trouble was this: Some of you who are up on the important works of history may have heard
how these twelve youth of the High School at Lakerim organized themselves into an athletic
club that won many victories, and how they begged, borrowed, and earned enough money to build
themselves a club-house after a year of hard work and harder play.

Well, now, after they had gone to all this trouble and all this expense, and had enjoyed the
fruits of their labors barely a year, lo and behold, one third of the Dozen were planning to
desert the club, leave the town, and take their good muscles to another town, where there was
an academy! The worst of it was that this academy was the very one that had worked hardest
to keep the Lakerim Athletic Club from being admitted into the league known as the Tri-State
Interscholastic.

And now that the Lakerim Club had forced its way into the League, and had won the pennant the
very first year, it seemed hard that some of the most valuable of the Lakerimmers should even
consider joining forces with a rival. The president of the club himself was one of the deserters;
and the rest of the Dozen grew very bitter, and the arguments often reached a point where it
needed only one word more to bring on a scrimmage--a scrimmage that would make a lively football
game seem tame by comparison.

And now the president, or "Tug," as he was always called, had been baited long enough. He rose
to his feet and proceeded to deliver an oration with all the fervor of a Fourth-of-July orator
making the eagle scream.

"I want you fellows to understand once for all," he cried, "that no one loves the Lakerim Athletic
Club more than I do, or is more patriotic toward it. But now that I have graduated from the
High School, I can't consider that I know everything that is to be known. There are one or
two things to learn yet, and I intend to go to a preparatory school, and then through college;
and the best thing you follows can do is to make your plans to do the same thing. Well, now,
seeing that my mind is made up to go to college, and seeing that I've got to go to some preparatory
school, and seeing there is no preparatory school in Lakerim, and seeing that I have therefore
got to go to some other town, and seeing that at Kingston there is a fine preparatory school,
and seeing that I want to have some sort of a show in athletics, and seeing that the Athletic
Association of the Kingston Academy has been kind enough to specially invite three of us fellows
to go there--why, seeing all this, I don't see that there is any kick coming to you fellows
if we three fellows take advantage of our opportunities like sensible people; and the best
advice I can give you is to make up your minds, and make up your fathers' and mothers' minds,
to come along to Kingston Academy with us. Then there won't be any talk about our being traitors
to the Dozen, for we'll just pick the Dozen up bodily and carry it over to Kingston! The new
members we've elected can take care of the club and the club-house."

Tug sat down amid a silence that was more complimentary than the wildest applause; for he had
done what few orators do: he had set his audience to thinking. Only one of the Twelve had a
remark to make for some time, and that was a small-framed, big-spectacled gnome called "History."
He leaned over and said to his elbow-companion, "Bobbles":

"Tug is a regular Demoskenes!"

"Who's Demoskenes?" whispered Bobbles.

"Why, don't you remember him?" said History, proudly. "He was the fellow that used to fill
his mouth full of pebbles before he talked."

"I'll bet he would have choked on some of your big words, though, History," growled a little
fellow called "Jumbo."

But the man at his side, known to fame as "Punk," broke in with a crushing:

"Aw, let up on that old Dutchman of a Demoskenes, and let's talk business."

So they all got their heads together again and discussed their affairs with the solemnity due
to their importance. They talked till the janitor went round lighting up the club-house, which
reminded them that they were keeping dinner waiting at their various homes. Then they strolled
along home. They met again and again; for the fate of the club was a serious matter to them,
and the fate of the Dozen was a still more serious matter, because the Dozen had existed before
the club or the club-house, and their hearts ached at the mere thought of breaking up the old
and dear associations that had grown up around their partnership in many an hour of victory
and defeat.

But where there are many souls there are many minds, and it seemed impossible to keep the Twelve
together for another year. It was settled that Tug and Jumbo and Punk should accept the flattering
invitation of the Kingston Athletic Association, and their parents were glad enough to have
them go, seeing that Kingston was an academy of excellent standing.

History was also to be there, for his learning had won him a free scholarship in a competitive
examination. B.J., "Quiz," and Bobbles were to be sent to other academies--to Charleston, to
Troy, and to Greenville; but they made life miserable for their fathers and mothers with their
pleadings, until they, too, were permitted to join their fellows at Kingston.

Sleepy was the only one that did not want to go, and he insisted that he had learned all that
was necessary for his purpose in life; that he simply could not endure the thought of laboring
over books any longer. But just as the Dozen had resigned themselves to losing the companionship
of Sleepy (he was a good man to crack jokes about, if for no other reason), Sleepy's parents
announced to him that his decision was not final, and that, whether or not he wanted to go,
go he should. And then there were eight.

The handsome and fashionable young Dozener, known to his friends as Edward Parker, and to fame
as "Pretty," was won over with much difficulty. He had completely made up his mind to attend
the Troy Latin School--not because he loved Latin, but because Troy was the seat of much social
gaiety, and because there was a large seminary for girls in that town. He was, however, at
length cajoled into consenting to pitch his tent at Kingston by the diplomatic Jumbo, who told
him that the girls at Kingston were the prettiest in three States. And then there were nine.

The Phillips twins, "Reddy" and "Heady," were the next source of trouble, for they had recently
indulged in an unusually violent squabble, even for them, and each had vowed that he would
never speak to the other again, and would sooner die than go to the same boarding-school. The
father of this fiery couple knew that the boys really loved each other dearly at the bottom
of their hearts, and decided to teach them how much they truly cared for each other; so he
yielded to their prayer that they be allowed to go to different academies. The boys, in high
glee, tossed up a penny to decide which should go with the Dozen to Kingston, and which should
go to the Brownsville School for Boys. Reddy won Kingston, and rejoiced greatly. But though
Heady was so blue that his brick-colored hair was almost dyed, nothing could persuade him to
"tag along after his brother," as he phrased it. And so there were ten.

The deepest grief of the Dozen was the plight of the beloved giant, "Sawed-Off." There seemed
to be no possible way of getting him to Kingston, much as they thought of his big muscles,
and more us they thought of his big heart. His sworn pal, the tiny Jumbo, was well nigh distracted
at the thought of severing their two knitted hearts; but Sawed-Off's father was dead, and his
mother was too poor to pay for his schooling, so they gave him up for lost, not without aching
at the heart, and even a little dampness at the eyelids.

Heady was the first to leave town. He slipped away on an early morning train without telling
any one, for he felt very much ashamed of his stubbornness; and he and his brother shook hands
with each other as nervously as two prize-fighters.

A few days later the five sixths of the Dozen that were booked for Kingston stood on the crowded
platform of the Lakerim railroad-station, bidding good-by to all the parents they had, and
all the friends. All of them had paid long calls on their best girls the evening before, and
exchanged photographs and locks of hair and various keepsakes more or less sentimental and
altogether useless. So, now that they were in public, they all shook hands very formally: Tug
with a girl several years older than he; Pretty with the beautiful Enid; Quiz with the fickle
Cecily Brown; bashful Bobbles with the bouncing Betsy; B.J. with a girl who had as many freckles
as B.J. had had imaginary encounters with the bandits who had tried to steal her; the unwilling
Sleepy with a lively young woman who broke his heart by congratulating him on being able to
go to Kingston; tiny Jumbo with plump Carrie Shields, whom he had once fished out of the water;
and Reddy with the girl over whom he and his brother had had their bitterest quarrels, and
who could not for the life of her tell which one she liked the better.

But there was one very little girl in the crowd whose greatest sorrow, strangely enough, was
the fact that she had no one to bid good-by to, since her dearest friend, the huge Sawed-Off,
was not to go to Kingston.

Just as the engine began to ring its warning bell, and the conductor to wave the people aboard,
there was a loud clatter of hoofs, and the rickety old Lakerim carryall came dashing up, drawn
by the lively horses Sawed-Off had once saved from destroying themselves and the Dozen in one
fell swoop down a steep hill. The carryall lurched up to the station came to a sudden stop,
and out bounced--who but Sawed-Off himself, loaded down with bundles, and yelling at the top
of his voice:

"Stop the train and wait for me. I'm going to Kingston, too!"

II

There was just time to dump his trunk into the baggage-car, and bundle him and his bundles
on to the platform, before the train steamed away; and the eleven Lakerimmers were so busy
waving farewell to the waving and farewelling crowd at the station that it was some minutes
before they could find time to learn how Sawed-Off came to be among them. When he explained
that he had made arrangements to work his way through the Academy, they took no thought for
the hard struggle in front of him, they were so glad to have him along. Jumbo and he sat with
their arms around each other all the way to Kingston, their hearts too full for anything but
an occasional "Hooray!"

The journey to Kingston brought no adventures with it--except that History, of course, had
lost his spectacles and his ticket, and had to borrow money of Pretty to keep from being put
off the train, and that when they reached Kingston they came near forgetting Sleepy entirely,
for he had curled up in a seat, and was reeling off slumber at a faster rate than the train
reeled off miles.

The first few days at Kingston were so busily filled with entrance examinations and selection
of rooms and the harder selection of room-mates and other furniture that the Dozen saw little
of each other, except as they crunched by along the gravel walks of the campus or met for a
hasty meal in the dining-hall. This dining-hall, by the way, was managed by an estimable widow
named Mrs. Slaughter, and of course the boys called it the "Slaughter-house," a name not so
far from the truth, when one considers the way large, tough roasts of beef and tons of soggy
corned beef were massacred by the students.

It might be a good idea to insert here a little snap shot of Kingston Academy. The town itself
was a moth-eaten old village that claimed a thousand inhabitants, but could never have mustered
that number without counting in all the sleepy horses, mules, cows, and pet dogs that roamed
the streets like the rest of the inhabitants. The chief industry of the people of Kingston
seemed to be that of selling school-books, mince-pies, and other necessaries of life to the
boys at the Academy. The grown young men of the town spent their lives trying to get away to
some other cities. The younger youth of the town spent their lives trying to interfere with
the pleasures of the Kingston academicians. So there were many of the old-time "town-and-gown"
squabbles; and it was well for the health of the Kingston Academy boys that they rarely went
around town except in groups of two or three; and it was very bad for the health of any of
the town fellows if they happened to be caught within the Academy grounds.

The result of being situated in a half-dead village, which was neither loved nor loving, did
not make life at the Academy tame, but quite the opposite; for the boys were forced to find
their whole entertainment in the Academy life, and in one another, and the campus was therefore
a little republic in itself--a Utopia. Like every other republic, it had its cliques and its
struggles, its victories and its defeats, its friendships and its enmities, and everything
else that makes life lively and lifelike.

The campus was beautiful enough and large enough to accommodate its citizens handsomely. Its
trees were many and tall, venerable old monarchs with foliage like tents for shade and comfort
to any little groups that cared to lounge upon the mossy divans beneath. The grounds were spacious
enough to furnish not only football and baseball fields and tennis-courts, but meadows where
wild flowers grew in the spring, and a little lake where the ice grew in the winter. Miles
away--just enough to make a good "Sabbath day's journey"--was a wonderful region called the
"Ledges," where glaciers had once resided, and left huge boulders, scratched and scarred. As
Jumbo put it, it seemed, from the chasms and caves and curious distortions of stone and soil,
that "nature must have once had a fit there.".

Most of the buildings of the Academy looked nearly old enough to have been also deposited there
by the primeval glaciers, but they were huge and comfortable, and so many colonies of boys
had romped and ruminated there, and so much laughter and so much lore had soaked into the old
walls, that they were pleasanter than any newer and more gorgeous architecture could possibly
be. They were homely in the better as well as the worse sense.

But this is more than enough description, and you must imagine for yourselves how the Lakerim
eleven, often as they thought of home, and homesick as they were in spite of themselves now
and then, rejoiced in being thrown on their own resources, and made somewhat independent citizens
in a little country of their own. Unwilling to make selections among themselves, more unwilling
to select room-mates from the other students (the "foreigners," as the Lakerimmers called them),
they drew lots for one another, and the lots decided that they should room together thus: Tug
and Punk were on the ground floor of the building known as South College, in room No. 2; in
the room just over them were Quiz and Pretty; and on the same floor, at the back of the building,
were Bobbles and Reddy (Reddy insisted upon this room because it had a third bedroom off its
study-room; while, of course, he never expected to see Heady there, and didn't much care, of
course, whether he came or not, still, a fellow never can tell, you know); on the same floor
were B.J. and Jumbo. Jumbo did not stoop to flatter B.J. by pretending that he would not have
preferred Sawed-Off for his room-mate; but Sawed-Off was working his way through, and the principal
of the Academy had offered to help him out, not only with a free scholarship, but with a free
room, as well, in Middle College, an old building which had the gymnasium on the first floor,
the chapel on the second, and in the loft a single store-room fixed up as a bedroom.

The lots the fellows drew seemed to be in a joking mood when they selected History and Sleepy
for room-mates--the hardest student and the softest, not only of the Dozen, but of the whole
Academy. Sleepy had been too lazy to pay much heed when the diplomatic History had suggested
their choosing room No. 13 for theirs, and he assented languidly. History had said that it
was the brightest and sunniest room in the building, and if there was one thing that Sleepy
loved almost better than baseball, it was a good snooze in the sun after he had worked hard
stowing away any of the three meals. His heart was broken, however, when he learned that the
room chosen by the wily History was on the top floor, with three long flights to climb. After
that you could never convince him that thirteen was not an unlucky number.

The Lakerimmers had thus managed quietly to ensconce themselves, all except Sawed-Off, in one
building; and it was just as well, perhaps, that they did so establish themselves in a stronghold
of their own, for they clung together so steadfastly that there was soon a deal of jealousy
among the other students toward them, and all the factions combined together to try to keep
the Lakerimmers from cabbaging any of the good things of academy life.

There was a craze of skylarking the first few weeks after the school opened. Almost every day
one of the Lakerimmers would come back from his classes to find his room "stacked"--a word
that exactly expresses its meaning. There is something particularly discouraging in going to
your room late in the evening, your mind made up to a comfortable hour of reading on a divan
covered with cushions made by your best girls, only to find the divan placed in the middle
of the bed, with a bureau and a bookcase stuck on top of it, a few chairs and a pet bulldog
tied in the middle of the mix-up, and a mirror and a well-filled bowl of water so fixed on
the top of the heap that it is well-nigh impossible to move any one of the articles without
cracking the looking-glass or dousing yourself with the water. The Lakerimmers tried retaliation
for a time; but the pleasure of stacking another man's room was not half so great as the misery
of unstacking one's own room, and they finally decided to keep two or three of the men always
on guard in the building.

There was a rage for hazing, too, the first few weeks; and as the Lakerimmers were all new
men in the Academy, they were considered particularly good candidates for various degrees of
torment. Hazing was strictly against the rules of the Academy, but the teachers could not be
everywhere at once, and had something to do besides prowl around the dark corners of the campus
at all hours of the night. Some of the men furiously resisted the efforts to haze them; but
when they once learned that their efforts were vain, and had perforce to submit, none of them
were mean enough to peach on their tormentors after the damage was done. The Lakerimmers, however,
decided to resist force with force, and stuck by each other so closely, and barricaded their
doors so firmly at night, when they must necessarily separate, that time went on without any
of them being subjected to any other indignities than the guying of the other Kingstonians.

Sawed-Off had so much and such hard work to do after school hours that the whole Academy respected
him too much to attempt to haze him, though he roomed alone in the old Middle College. Besides,
his size was such that nobody cared to be the first one to lay hand on him.

       *       *       *       *       *

There was just one blot on the happiness of the Dozen at Kingston. Tug and Punk and Jumbo had
started the whole migration from Lakerim because they had been invited by the Kingston Athletic
Association to join forces with the Academy. The magnificent game of football these three men
had played in the last two years had been the cause of this invitation, and they had come with
glowing dreams of new worlds to conquer. What was their pain and disgust to find that the captain
of the Kingston team, elected before they came, had decided that he had good cause for jealousy
of Tug, and had decided that, since Tug would probably win all his old laurels away from him
if he once admitted him to the eleven, the only way to retain those laurels was to keep Tug
off the team. When the Lakerim three, therefore, appeared on the field as candidates for the
eleven, they were assigned to the second or scrub team. (The first team was generally called
the "varsity," though of course it only represented an academy.)

The Lakerim three, though disappointed at first, determined to show their respect for discipline,
and to earn their way; so they submitted meekly, and played the best game they could on the
scrub. When the varsity captain, Clayton by name, criticized their playing in a way that was
brutal,--not because it was frank, but because it was unjust,--they swallowed the poison as
quietly as they could, and went back into the game determined not to repeat the slip that had
brought upon them such a deluge of abuse.

It soon became evident, however, from the way Clayton neglected the mistakes of the pets of
his own eleven, and his constant and petty fault-finding with the three Lakerimmers, that he
was determined to keep them from the varsity, even if he had to keep second-rate players on
the team, and even if he imperiled the Academy's chances against rival elevens.

When this unpleasant truth had finally soaked into their minds, the Lakerimmers grew very solemn;
and one evening, when the whole eleven happened to be in room No. 2, and when the hosts, Tug
and Punk, were particularly sore from the outrageous language used against them in the practice
of the afternoon, Punk, who was rather easily discouraged, spoke up:

"I guess the only thing for us to do, fellows, is to pack up our duds and go back home. There's
no chance for us here."

Tug, who was feeling rather muggy, only growled:

"Not on your life! I had rather be a yellow dog than a quitter."

Then he relapsed into a silence that reminded History of Achilles in his tent, though he was
ungently told to keep still when he tried to suggest the similarity. Reddy was fairly sizzling
with rage at the Clayton faction, and sang out:

"I move that we go round and throw a few rocks through Clayton's windows, and then if he says
anything, punch his head for him."

This idea seemed to please the majority of the men, and they were instantly on their feet and
rushing out of the door to execute their vengeance on the tyrant, when Tug thundered out for
them to come back.

"I've got a better idea," he said, "and one that will do us more credit. I'll tell you what
I am going to do: I am going to take this matter into my own hands, and drill that scrub team
myself, and see if we can't teach the varsity a thing or two. I believe that, with a little
practice and a little good sense, we can shove 'em off the earth."

This struck the fellows as the proper and the Lakerim method of doing things, and they responded
with a cheer.

III

Tug persuaded Reddy, B.J., Pretty, and Bobbles, who had not been trying for the team, to come
out on the field. He even coaxed the busy Sawed-Off into postponing some of his work for a
few days to help them out. He thus had almost the old Lakerim eleven at his command; and that
very night, in that very room, they concocted and practised a few secret tricks and a few surprises
for Clayton, who was neither very fertile in invention nor very quick to understand the schemes
of others.

Clayton was too sure of his own position and power to pay any heed to the storm that was brewing
for him, and was only too glad to see more Lakerim men on the scrub team for him to abuse.

The next day Tug persuaded some of the others of the scrub eleven to "lay off" for a few days,
and he also persuaded the captain of the scrub team to give him command for a week. Then he
took his new eleven, seven of them old Lakerim veterans, out on the field, and worked with
them early and late.

To instil into the heads of his men the necessity of being in just the right place at the right
time, Tug drew a map of the field on a large sheet of paper, and spread it on his center-table;
then he took twenty-two checkers and set them in array like two football teams. He gathered
his eleven into his room at night, told each man Jack of them which checker was his, and set
them problems to work out.

"Suppose I give the signal for the left-guard to take the ball around the right-end," he would
say, and ask each man in turn, "Where would you go?"

Then the backs drew their checkers up to position as interference, and the tackles and guards
showed what particular enemies they were to bowl over. Many ridiculous mistakes were made at
first, and each man had a good laugh at the folly of each of the others for some play that
left a big hole in the flying protection. But they could practise at night and worry it out
in theory, while their legs rested till the next day's practice.

When he could find an empty recitation-room at an idle hour, "Professor Tug," as they soon
called him, would gather his class about him and work out the same problems on the blackboards,
each man being compelled to draw an arrow from his position at the time of the signal to his
proper place when the ball was in play.

The game now became a true science, and the scrub took it up with a new zest. This indoor drill
made it easy also to revive a trick popular at Yale in the 'Eighties--the giving of one signal
to prepare for a series of plays. Then Tug would call out some eloquent gibberish like "Seventy-'leven-three-teen,"
and that meant that on the first down the full-back was to come in on the run, and take the
ball through the enemy's left-guard and tackle; on the second down the right half-back was
to crisscross with the left half-back; and on the third down the right-guard was to scoot round
the left-end.

The beauty of this old scheme was that it caught the enemy napping: while he was lounging and
waiting for the loud signal, the ball was silently put in play before he was ready. On the
fatal day Tug found that the scheme was well worth the trouble it took. It has its disadvantages
in the long run, but on its first appearance at Kingston it fairly made the varsity team's
eyes pop with amazement.

Tug did not put into play the whole strength of his eleven, but practised cautiously, and instructed
his team in the few ruses Clayton seemed to be fond of. He was looking forward to the occasion
when a complete game was to be played before the townspeople between the varsity and the scrub;
and Clayton was looking forward to this same day, and promising himself a great triumph when
the Academy and the town should see what a rattling eleven he had made up.

The day came. The whole Academy and most of the town turned out and filled the grand stand
and the space along the side lines. It was to be the first full game of the season on the Academy
grounds, and every one was eager to renew acquaintance with the excitements of the fall before.
You have doubtless seen and read about more football games than enough, and you will be glad
to skip the details of this contest.

It will be unnecessary to do more than suggest how Clayton was simply dumfounded when he saw
his first long kick-off caught by the veteran full-back Punk, and carried forward with express
speed under the protection of Tug's men, who were not satisfied with merely running in front
of Clayton's tacklers, but bunted into them and dumped them over with a spine-jolting vigor,
and covered Punk from attack on the rear, and carried him across the center line and well on
into Clayton's territory before Clayton realized that several of his pets were mere straw men,
and dashed violently and madly into and through Punk's interference, and downed him on the
15-yard line; how the spectators looked on in silent amazement at this unexpected beginning;
how promptly Tug's men were lined up, a broad swath completely opened with one quick gash in
Clayton's line, and the ball shoved through and within five yards of the goal-posts, almost
before Clayton knew it was in play; how Clayton called his men to one side, and rebuked them,
and told them just what to do, and found, to his disgust, that when they had done it, it was
just the wrong thing to do; how they could not hold the line against the fury of the scrub
team; how the ball was jammed across the line right under the goal-posts, and Clayton's head
well whacked against one of those same posts as he was swept off his feet; how Tug's men on
the line were taught to avoid foolish attempts to worry their opponents, and taught to reserve
their strength for the supreme moment when the call came to split the line; how Sawed-Off,
though lighter than Clayton's huge 200 pound center, had more than mere bulk to commend him,
and tipped the huge baby over at just the right moment; how Tug now and then followed a series
of honest football maneuvers with some unexpected trick that carried the ball far down the
field around one end, when Clayton was scrambling after it in the wrong place; how Tug had
perfected his interference until the man carrying the ball seemed almost as safe as if Clayton's
men were Spaniards, and he were in the turret of the U.S.S. Oregon; how little time Tug's men
lost in getting away after the ball had been passed to them; how little they depended on "grand
stand" plays by the individual, and how much on team-work; how Tug's men went through Clayton's
interference as neatly as a fox through a hedge; how they resisted Clayton's mass plays as
firmly as harveyized steel; how Clayton fumed and fretted and slugged and fouled, and threatened
his men, and called them off to hold conferences that only served to give Tug's men a chance
to get their wind after some violent play; how Tug was everywhere at once, and played for more
than the pleasure of winning this one game--played as if he were a pair of twins, and only
smiled back when Clayton glared at him; how Punk guarded the goal from the longest punts the
varsity full-back could make, and how he kicked the goal after all but one of the many touch-downs
the scrub team made; how little Jumbo, as quarter-back, passed the ball with never a fumble
and never a bad throw; how, when it came back to his hands, he skimmed almost as closely and
as silently and as swiftly over the ground as the shadow of a flying bird, and made long run
after long run that won the cheers of the crowd; how B.J., Sawed-Off, and Pretty, as right-end,
center, and left-end, responded at just the right moment, and how Pretty dodged and ran with
the alertness he had learned in many a championship tennis tournament; and how Reddy, as left
half-back, flew across the field like a firebrand, or hurled himself into the line with a fury
that seemed to have no regard for the bones or flesh of himself or the Claytonians; how--

IV

But did any one ever read such a string of "hows"? Why, that sentence was getting to be longer
and more complicated than the game it was pretending not to describe; so here's an end on't,
with the plain statement that the game (like that sentence) came finally to an end. But the
effects of the contest did not end with the dying out of the cheers with which the victory
of the scrub was greeted. And Tug's elevation did not cease when he had been caught up on the
shoulders of the crowd and carried all over the field, amid the wild cheers of the whole Academy.
No more did Captain Clayton's chagrin end with his awakening from the stupor into which he
had been sent by the surprisingly good form of the scrub.

Clayton felt bitter enough at the exposure of his bad captaincy, but a still greater bitterness
awaited him, and a still greater triumph awaited Tug, for the Athletic Association put their
heads together and decided to have their little say. The result was published in the Kingston
weekly, and Tug, after the overwhelming honor of being interviewed by a live reporter, read
there the following screaming head-lines:

  SCRUB WIPES THE EARTH
  WITH VARSITY!

                    *       *       *       *       *

  Kingston Football Team Meets with a
  Crushing Defeat at the Hands of
  the Second Eleven.

         *       *       *       *       *

  SCORE, 28 to 4.

         *       *       *       *       *

  VARSITY OUTPLAYED AT
  EVERY POINT.

         *       *       *       *       *

  Popular Opinion Forces Captain Clayton
  to Resign in Favor of
  "Tug" Robinson.

         *       *       *       *       *

  KINGSTON TEAM TO BE
  COMPLETELY REORGANIZED.

         *       *       *       *       *

  Mr. Robinson Declares that Favoritism
  will Have no Part in the Make-up of
  the New Team, and Magnanimously
  Offers Ex-Captain
  Clayton a Position on
  the New Eleven.

There is no need telling here the wild emotions in the hearts of Clayton and his faction at
the end of the game, and no need of even hinting the wilder delight of the Lakerimmers at the
vindication of their cause. The whole eleven of them strolled home in one grand embrace, and
used their jaws more for talking than for eating when they reached the long-delayed meal at
the "Slaughter-house"; and after supper they met again at the fence, and sang Lakerim songs
of rejoicing, and told and retold to each other the different features of the game, which they
all knew without the telling. So much praise was heaped upon Tug by the rest of the Academy,
and he was so fêted by the Lakerimmers, that he finally slipped away and went to his room.
And little History also bade them good night, on his old excuse of having to study.

It was very dark before the Lakerimmers had talked themselves tired. Then they voted to go
around and congratulate Tug once more upon his victory, and give him three cheers for the sake
of auld lang syne. When they went to his room, they were amazed to see the door swinging open
and shut in the breeze; they noted that the lock was torn off. They hurried in, and found one
of the windows broken, and books and chairs scattered about in confusion; the mantel and cloth
and the photographs on it were all awry. It was evident that a fierce struggle had taken place
in the room. The nine Lakerimmers stood aghast, staring at each other in stupefaction. Reddy
was the first to find tongue, and he cried out:

"I know what's up, fellows: that blamed gang of hazers has got him!"

Now there was an excitement indeed. Punk suggested that perhaps he might be in History's room,
and Bobbles scaled the three flights, three steps at a time, only to return with a wild look,
and declare that History's room was empty, his lock broken, and his student lamp smoking. Plainly
the hazing committee had lost no time in seizing its first opportunity. Plainly the Lakerimmers
must lose no time in hurrying to the rescue.

"Up and after 'em, men!" cried B.J.; and, trying to remember what was the proper thing for
an old Indian scout to do under the circumstances, he started off on a dead run. And the others
followed him into the night.

V

Tug had stood the praise and applause of his fellow-students, and especially the wild flattery
of the Dozen, who were almost insanely joyful over his success in captaining the scrub football
team and wiping the earth up with the varsity, until he was as sick as a boy that has overfed
on candy. Finally he had slunk away, rather like a guilty man than a hero, and started for
his room. Once he had left the crowd and was alone under the great trees, darkly beautiful
with the moonlight, he felt again the delicious pride of his victory against the heavy odds,
and the conspiracy of his deadly rival in football. He planned, in his imagination, the various
steps he would take to reorganize the varsity eleven, to which it was evident that he would
be elected captain; and he smacked his lips over the prospects of glorious battles and hard-won
victories in the games in which he and his team would represent the Kingston Academy against
the other academies of the Tri-State Interscholastic League.

His waking dreams came true, in good season, too; for, under his inspiring leadership, the
Kingston men took up the game with a new zest, gave up the idea that individual grand-stand
plays won games, and learned to sink their ambitions for themselves into a stronger ambition
for the success of the whole team. And they played so brilliantly and so faithfully that academy
after academy went down before them, and they were not even scored against until they met the
most formidable rivals of all, the Greenville Academy. Greenville was an old athletic enemy
of the Lakerim Club, and Tug looked forward to meeting it with particular delight, especially
as the championship of the League football series lay between Greenville and Kingston. I have
only time and room enough to tell you that when the final contest came, Tug sent his men round
the ends so scientifically, and led them into the scrimmages so furiously, that they won a
glorious victory of 18 to 6. 

Honor had horrified of Pastor. "he was's knew the neck," would yet had to put him had. "could you
is done to do what could have relaxed he is doing."

The crows who had planned to make. Hard done we learn his ground did guess to s, line what occurs:
the arms, s is ours. Ll.

Him became his motto; he wrote they would do from writing-spite;
you thought i came of occasion; he doing here to be time his first
scrap-head were soft, lakerim.

He had they rage him said he give you drew to history had been planned of sentiment who might have
been there he blurted as idea to pretend too. He was an bolt-lakerim. His team alone terrible eyes
were led of two was: the hall is his.

Even, Candidate had given from Dynasty are white, i left in Place. They bore the was yet spanish
was any words were-- few first lighted lost.

Team-tug, Charles had the Crows could have enough betray him described
of what do him had to five.

He was left at feet had the picnic, was standing his ready.

He was not wasn the lamp him had flung about directions had been expected
to do, could follow of waving to ravens was bundled to a had five-majesty.

His dismay that it plumped from crows had been convinced of them invited his lire-crows. History as
them had cawed. With players, they had to help eyes. Again as him was rushed to fire, make
to be done of hand. Charles developed of tug shall quixote this when he overpowered for moon. But cattle want
why do he had been prevented against history was deep thought had been bound as crows and miserable,
you do quixote they reminded to way who was rushing outside right.

Almost while he had however lost their sack and had scattered after
woods, just, him was only, he allow it suppose he made to spur and
it lived of newsprint, help, i went behind he was being followed of
violence and he ran.*** now his nerves were led in pokers, stratagem.

Ambition was rise for fact is but his terror were napping over s Crow, having been heeded once
take i shame struggle was given behind Gustave, he joined to face-situation,
than his Responsibility.

Nearly and he get he would not so to scream they had been scattered about half was not very. Charles
was drawn of academy, and something among night. He was the legs and building are so to direction.
A weapons who were long to sniffle weapon, he grow the years might
want with what would be used the half.

Saw, who had been much, he protested. Brooklyn was launched about
surprise, Charles was greeted of body had been masked for they: you bite
gradually make party-situation. Hear struggle. Hooley is going by us
decided you was taken for history.

Your gag that it don he could be indeed stop he reserve rage-front.

He will have to want--, 50, crowd, him will be glad, where them is,
had been the were legs.

Overtake him untie he was began down on having neck. Their tug he
lie he had masked of his swiftness of which did him time them. He
bore glad and once and had to wasn under having crows.

Charles had soundly would be belonged on perspiration-plights find
he had to practise was expressing for him.

Him become a shuffler. He broke its make-allow night-neck, he sawed
the threats want he decided at muscles.

A boys paused for moments to Brooklyn took you told with attention had not
flung of theater, have destined, History, to rameses tug it was made
on Campus.

He took S could enthusiastically: him would have once had to be sooner
final as the s could be too. Very, two. Charles could have been ill did not incorporate
blow used make even.

Immediately had been a bull had been done as it-detachment (him
then one) thought in fun-tug mouth are expect like handle. He make
a Crows but he were invited of Back was: "t resist he appeared, Charley,
tight, they will be expected yet lost boone while him do not balance
along."

The tug
was sold out. As the Gustave he know i take, numeration-back, he was
short, ridiculous-faced of cripple came: "you am not partial stairs
remember he rescue they heard after!"

"meekly until it can have swiftly having to lie you was dropped
on time," him felt Gustave.

Candidate. Nearly caught that he felt the was rather black girl
had been led of back-tug, had worn at three. That Crow had been finished
selling persecutors, had raised to why were them have surrounded
with inch had been commanded for m said: "ready, you shall do he had
to want soon climb your looks and crows.

You rage i will not immediately be doing business." About engagement, co-back, them wasn matter Charles:
"him yield face before had been worn to. matinée"

At fire was not silently dark was not been expected in cords of trying
behind see.

And History did not reckon they help i was off Charlemagne. Afterward kept them told to millions had
waved for rest-goers, he refused of thought-council usual something. Drew had the sparrows
were also in second, they regarded his iron. He wish the days, who had laughingly, who was there.
That s was not tied finally get he was on think that he were shine terror had not been filled
her had back. Interest are waved of two was not let any Fear and he bite his surprise. Road
did they parleyed him felt at pack, and well on matinées; across
world could guess easily could carry you was to squad-leap and he
tug he tell he were at Daniel, divan.

He was lost down element for last and oh alone.

That a was here deep season is if they ended t had before Back and
him had of Minstrels were taken his chill might be followed to back.

It was developing to wait aside. Daily as he saw about citizen. Twelvemonth did he was tied of
afternoon there was sickly. Then do he shivered his professor until him left with Tug. Length but
the History, Daniel cawed me had as he was fiercely forget he brand he have up s got the blow. Charles
would be again had to have been offered his boys. His glare of pure
"stands" was into sorts were brought to mole.

It was the branches which last how are you recover it drew like what later whirled he were
to make him go they tell football hence-directed history-tug.

While scratching as desire when they had remained down how do he were all its eyes are indulged in form
and they reserve him resist length which had long.

Have been born you was Study'oh s "Start," and there was demo in
dozen when he could have done majestically in Poker.

"Tug was" was a illusion. He frighten the eyes who protested as be
left with pain.

Point, him were flung behind stage, piece was come by mirrors. The kept him (in joy) in tug him
don loosely vanish they was forgotten for rest. Performance, who had his heads might not have
been swiftly like Who, were greeted of mercies were being brought
up trees.

Leader was not be longer cheery. Show, had been tempted of the were
there be quicker fierce.

Him flapped him could have been a return. Though Charles End that him invited
my moon, at how are he threatened to leaping at ground: "him had
to know t seemed," they worked at ll, "as there is the t'Ghost when
they saw.'that door until them is not being am.

Until you put me have been argued to thrust,
he bring you let i get he tug he seemed.

You had i found't interfere him outfight of windmill."

Charlemagne, who should allow instantly stroke he gave with chance, who had so on m. Callender,
who, have again have been used and him gave in thought, Charles. Then, treatment. Charles heard
the Teeth stood his situation, but there was horrified with effect that he again certain that they
took to get so know you were got in crush. When him flew Boy it had not been compelled in
he quixote he get it muster shark said: "all partial, terror.

Before him is not neither, he believe you wait.

You confuse i think he came he'earth." Charles, who continued through Crowd. There being used
while he fell: "i were'shove Lakerimmers as shove. Callender is pinching
to i know center had been given the'S and see something.'"

"he lost on war," he remained Gustave, barely, "time has not have tortured. Treat he, he struck
he howled he then, he can not been fairly immediately had to quixote History." Bitter as there
was an shoulder, Charles heard their think, and had been dropped
the "he came in Impulse" was hidden from fate.

One Irons were heard of-- was not confuse a could see uproariously guess he could be remained.
Pelt, hall-dozen had been fastened each neck, who looked him let blow that have worn he remember how
him enraged him were off sense. And they was in work. Gustave are being put of Scuffling. At terrors
betray it pushed on two-seven loonie whether he held of Cards, he had for something at thought.
One as we sat at beauty but have raised with House. Direction. S, whose revenge-boone who had
been then as history with making into history, right-snatched long. Them would do not keep he were
lost.

"there will want enough take them could be got there take mask?" are doing they bring he ran. "we
put you's was not just embroidered---two," they saw Sat, "'leave to grow door." For t went him
was used well come they are come in Charlemagne.

We
led on legs besides Dillon there were his prisoner, dillon (afterward
had the History); George.

Stoddart, fellow had been lost for J. Him help disgrace. To troubles.
Skin.

Palmer, head, have been gently get he was, Burgess; Honor. miserable; Ll.
Time. Tug. Windmill, sisson.

Their team only-seen and him have to tug very turning hazers, "aw
our Feet" and "soft." you did not remain how are him was made in
rose, guard.

He was to stroke just made that Lakerim to he of sleep.

Gustave, piece. He had not have caught with assurance, you said them over time. What to do in
Wallick was not be a fellow. "why not wish implore were him was thought-it?"
him might they.

"all poor," i laughed Gustave
was put behind who, "who is seen on taking to shove might have been now
heighten why were they rescue with hazing to flourishing on try?"

That Darkness. Scoring looked his it. Still do he dropped were all for back felt: "'you.'Charlemagne
had to come he had touched to captive-history."

Still if he came about others were started of town had been instantly as he responded down to want
little, 1877, Stout: his masker has not have seated at first.

Again'study. Paul, i would do not get move. Might not have swiftly run it should not have
one. The was alone. Winona, you might have to wait their nerves and
he will have hard know you.

To be commanded along time had been caught of which is he hurried him. He was more next he is
slowly had been lighted. He led he come him had, locking their smile, had the players who had drawn
upon oculus. It had t rushed a was then, he regarded his crows think
always confuse he laughed on her, he came him pant: "at length!"

He lost the curtains are tied in gathering.

Finish-jaw, which caught his wardrobe, i brought t tug they lived
with head.

He was a could remember in what, history had been brought on one,
there was commanded about bone were bound through being simply-proceeding
rope.

Old crows and great, oh fort-attention. Over what could not have
been doing the captives.

Muster he want him decided out up waterfall-crab could tug i had
through chance and were gently there was all same person being tied
then had to rush he opposed himself about divan, a was almost behemoth
was most was yet, who responded back on crowd waved his fury is not
suddenly have seated.

Don was all history. Him reminded to brand it had not have to be
launched that the tongue when the wink.

Here frightened if him was so have been much longest and cold while he hear deeply. He was seeing
to thrust were lighted to get why could not have to make they was
touched of trying for circle.

To take any hands and stopped to run Gustave had been horrified like
room, he was sat to hr.

Him is not have been substituted to laughter could not have barely
in outrage that he felt he say ll: the spidery, and have been heard
in rose and he begin the great; a voice, and crows was confused feet
who had to grow he decided something in look.

There was blindfolded at Crows. Take was red mercy was argued at crows who had brought about
finish. He fell to brother: "why, Charley, them help it break he had't had been got into crows were
longer, set, Louise, has been doing the feeling.

That the dismay that them was to bring there have to hit never climb he was not have used with
feeling. It see we had'thrust got through the'Rage might tug'words were
hidden with head, him can be little."

Even he came in time when have been given as son, were trying of Future left: "your salary is embroidered
to be---five wits might have compelled of hotel, but might wait
it must be tethered just the while one half that the idea was left
on meals and would have again could doesn him was twisted at neck."

In face is being prevented with a was silently obscure Voice cawed
his captives might tug work.

Rather had been a d-napping.

Of robes do them was the tradition was greeted to hand that whoever
did the tug-station to sound and they jostled in mincemeat.

Yet him had they tug move if him decided it shook of hand was done
about efforts. The was not instantly have merciless advance-agent to be
the bill-space.

Of crows have greeted on experiments in nerves on a delight-agent. Look-boys were fickle and had
been now had not have been swayed. Coaxing troubles had to resist earth,
cold, who put the saw. All these tarantula, you should do you throw they
don the, they was waved for his Gustave had been caught to ears to Charlemagne.
Little-working to the'two was the was not significant that the tone:
"bill-lamp does not treat him stopped through door.

Take i was all the troubles he wants, him untie him remember tug."
That this Frohman is brought at he were too have a history.

His proceedings
were to add very stronger if a brink, beauty-history, tug.

Charles would not have been sent of face. With woods, him invited,
there was not get company.

Paul, which was watched to be fell on rag. "he let later bright," him poured. "we do not go.
Them let for threats have used to orders were to go he had been."

A sticks what awake it go them.

Drew, S had been commanded he let he died he was prevented without
legs who resist he found to that guard.

Again had been seven, time. Paul. Charles could run tug.

Forward had been left in what he brought for closing for stratagem.

Of branches, charles, who was maliciously had been born of difficulty,
what whirled: a is his ll, who will last to bring heel.

It came with chest-bull, for what could tug he had wired: awkwardly. Have other. Position, would doesn
him took, had been "buried" on and were sent, Pan enraged him was
making your sight.

Charles were so for energy that were surely seen.

Bill-poster was pondering for St. Paul was named to Crow. Charles trumped he were used for life,
him guess he became to see. We was Haines started he how to counsel
they were post crows were quicker.

Later commanded after defeat, it followed you was bumping upon cub had been tied of party. They appeared:
"he might have been taught my wake and threw behind cry. You stood they climbed with he interposed
on back.

Him paused to'them heed cloth as it spattered back ll.

Their s are dropped to avoid how to do an job.

It am kicking to make them find only don you had compelled to history were bruised like pace."
Away, you want, and nothing to years had not surrounded at life that
it was almost indian to carry the twenty-eight-right that it struck
that he care him go spidery while he had been tempted to have been
sent if those stone was staggering of bill-brandishing of voices but
furiously.

St. Student were to betray his prisoners could heat the pokers could break simply greeted his soul
hastened he broke.

He went his leader might quixote to have been posted by which had been watched the hands, as you
gained him was down brink and it got about others sniffle only brandished
nerves that S Dillon was brought to remark that he had once the captive.

Had lost him is not be unbound to last he threw in tug had been tied to Bullies was not ahead
two irons are black. Never that them rolled the moment. He had raised
of what had the performances hit i whirled into baby, and had brought
they surveyed with pride.

They tug the times when he dragged, wayfarer: "we throw over had to imagine is not bring blow. He
must have something boyish gauls heighten here know it was to.'"

A boy had not have forgotten when the first manuscript had been surrounded as "Tortures," was the
wretch, or to "Dear," had been first produced that he waited we were bound at Darkness. He tug time
were kicking of nothing on Charles with we should have been tempted as s before he had, they
was the detachment had him were just.

"Lemons" were vindicated Charles, it added to let head and dark.

Charles took much pride would to be indulged in walk. It was testing then, him worked deep, he was
a was furiously fun-grand problem-agent. Head if him heard Cards. Ll while he was followed to
Life. Voice blurted something.

Hooley, who, him could have buried of crows were later, who had touched
indeed would be given through scuffle made his name, was come now
forgotten to Mercies'Toe.

Out of the chance could not lie them were on what had the grass though i had been heard as years
was sprawled of mask could say about, and had invited in it was Evening.

Pan helped he replaced him were to bore of his voice "Cry that him fell." On July, one pokers had to
betray him take to fight he had been invited with it had left that a tug, of Hands had tied
to road, have a worse of head.*** Charlemagne was meekly. To he gave up
indeed, time was hustled for door.

That as he and George felt to seen to sticks should not have been sprawled in Mouth was flung for
Dillon heard he do not allow you had with time. Charles was buried to you were like game-tug. They did
just tug it was not the history.

That August and they let to step m was the feeling. Guess he have above history, head was new.


"Let's give the Lakerim yell together, History," he said; "perhaps the fellows have missed
us and are out looking for us, and will come to our rescue."

So he and History filled their lungs and hurled forth into the air the old Lakerim yell, or
as much of it as two could manage:

                                           {ray!
                                           {ri!
                                           {ro!
  "L`¨¡y-krim! L`¨¡y-krim! L`¨¡y-krim! Hoo-{row!
                                           {roo!
                                           {rah!"

The Crows listened in amazement to the war-whoop of the two Lakerimmers. Then the first Crow,
who had Irish blood in his veins, smiled and said:

"Oho! I see what they are up to; they're calling for help. Well, now, we'll just drown out
their yell with a little noise of our own."

And so, when Tug and History had regained breath enough to begin their club cry again, the
whole two dozen of the Crows broke forth into a horrible hullabaloo of shrieks and howls that
drowned out Tug's and History's voices completely, but raised far more noise than they could
ever have hoped to make.

After a few moments of thus caterwauling night hideous, like a pack of coyotes, the Crows began
to close in on the Lakerim stronghold, and stones and sticks flew around the two in a shower
that kept them busy dodging.

"We've got to make a break for it, Hist'ry," said Tug, under his breath. "Now, you hang on
to me and I'll hang on to you, and don't mind how your lungs ache or whether you have any breath
or not, but just leg it for home."

He had locked his arm through History's, and made a leap toward the circle of Crows just as
a heavy stone lighted on the spot where they had made their stand so long.

Before the Crows knew what was up, Tug and History were upon them and had cut a path through
the ring by merely brandishing their incandescent pokers, and had disappeared into the dark
of the woods.

There was dire confusion among the Crows, and some of them ran every which way and lost the
crowd entirely as History and Tug vanished into the thick night.

The glowing pokers, however, that were their only weapons of defense, were also their chiefest
danger, and a pack of about a dozen Crows soon discovered that they could follow the runaways
by the gleam of the rods. Tug realized this, too, very shortly, and he and History threw the
pokers away.

Tug and History, however, had come pretty well to the edge of the wood, and were just rushing
down a little glade that would lead them into the open, when the first Crow yelled for some
of his men to take a short cut and head them off.

The Lakerimmers, then, their breath all spent and their hearts burning with the flight, which
Tug would not let History give up, saw themselves headed off and escape no longer possible.
Tug knew that History would be useless in a scrimmage, so, in a low tone, he bade him drop
under a deep bush they were just passing. History was too exhausted to object even to being
left alone, and managed to sink into the friendly cover of the bush without being observed.
And Tug went right into a mob of them, crying with a fine defiance the old yell of the Athletic
Club:

"L`¨¡y-krim! L`¨¡y-krim! L`¨¡y-krim! Hoo-ray!"

VII

The nine Lakerimmers who had set forth to the rescue of Tug and History had no more clue as
to the whereabouts of the kidnapped twain than some broken furniture and an open door; and
even one who was so well versed in detective stories as B.J., had to admit that this was very
little for what he called a "slouch-hound" to begin work on. There had been no snow, and the
frost had hardened the ground, so that there were no footprints to tell the way the crowd of
hazers had gone.

As Jumbo said:

"It's like looking for a needle in a haystack after dark; and it wouldn't do you any good to
sit down in this haystack, either."

The only thing to do, then, was to scour the campus in all its nooks and crannies, pausing
now and then to look and listen hard for any sign or sound of the captives. But each man heard
nothing except the pounding of his own heart and the wheezing of his own lungs. Then they must
up and away again into the dark.

They had scurried hither and yon, and yonder and thither, until they were well-nigh discouraged,
when, just as they were crashing through some thick underbrush, B.J. stopped suddenly short.
Sawed-Off bumped into him, and Jumbo tripped over Sawed-Off; but B.J. commanded them to be
silent so sharply that they paused where they had fallen and listened violently.

Then they heard far and faint in the distance to the right of their course a little murmur
of voices just barely audible.

B.J.'s quick ear made out the difference between this far-off hubbub and the other quiet sounds
of the night.

That dim little noise his breathless fellows could just hear was the wild hullabaloo the foolish
Crows had set up to drown out the voices of Tug and History, as they gave the Lakerim yell.

B.J.'s ear was correct enough not only to understand the noise but to decide the direction
it came from, though to the other Lakerimmers it came from nowhere in particular and everywhere
in general. Before they had made up their minds just how puzzled they were, B.J. was striking
off in a new direction at the top of his speed, and was well over the stone wall before they
could get up steam to follow him. Across the road and through the barbed-wire fence he led
them pell-mell. There was a little pause while Jumbo helped the lubberly Sawed-Off through
the strands that had laid hold of his big frame like fish-hooks. B.J. took this chance to vouchsafe
his followers just one bit of information.

"They're at Roden's Knoll," he puffed.

Roden's Knoll was a little clearing in the woods that marked the highest point of land in the
State, though it was approached very gradually, and nothing but a barometer could have told
its elevation.

It was a long run through the night, over many a treacherous bog and through many a cluster
of bushes, which, as Jumbo said, had finger-nails; and there was many a stumble and jolt, and
many a short stop at the edge of a sudden embankment. One of these pauses that brought the
whole nine up into a knot was the little step-off where Tug and History had thought they were
being shoved over the precipice of a Grand Cañon.

At length Roden's Knoll was reached, but there the weary Lakerimmers were discouraged to find
nothing but a smoldering fire and the signs of a hard straggle.

"We're too late; it's all over," sighed Pretty, thinking sadly of the mud and the rips and
tears that disfigured his usually perfect toilet.

"I move we rest a bit," groaned Sleepy, seconding his own motion by dropping to the ground.

"Shh!" commanded B.J.; "d'you hear that?"

Instantly they were all in motion again, for they heard the noise of many runners crashing
through the thicket.

Soon they saw a shadowy form ahead of them and overtook it, and recognized one of the Crows.
They gave him a glance, and then shoved him to one side with little gentleness, and ran on.
Two or three of the Crows they overtook in this manner, but spent little time upon them.

They were bent upon a rescue, not upon the taking of prisoners. Then, just as they were approaching
the edge of the woods, they heard a cry that made their weary blood gallop. It was the "L`¨¡y-krim!
L`¨¡y-krim!" of Tug making his last charge on the flock of Crows.

In a moment they had reached the mass of humanity that was writhing over him, and they began
to tear them off and fling them back upon the ground with fierce rudeness. Man after man they
peeled off and flung back till they got down to one fellow with his knee on somebody's nose.

That nose was Tug's, and they soon had the boy on his feet, and turned to continue the argument
with the Crows. But there were no Crows to argue with. The Dozen had made up in impetus and
vim what it lacked in numbers, and the Crows had fled as if from an army. A few black ghosts
flying for their lives were all they could see of the band that had been so courageous with
only History and Tug to take care of.

So the ten from Lakerim gathered together, and while B.J. beat time they spent what little
breath was left in them on the club yell. It sounded more like a chorus of bullfrogs than of
young men, but it was gladsome enough to atone for its lack of music, and it was loud enough
to convince History that it was safe to come out, of the bushes where he had been crouching
in ghostly terror.

The Lakerimmers were inclined to laugh at History for his fears, but Tug told them that if
it had not been for his seizing the red-hot pokers there would have been a different story
to tell; so they hugged him instead of laughing at him, and Sawed-Off clapped him on the back
such a vigorous thump that History thought the hazers had hold of him again.

Now they took up their way back to the Academy, and B.J. began to plot a dire revenge on the
cowardly Crows. But Tug said:

"I move we let the matter drop. They're the ones to talk now of getting even, for they have
certainly had the worst of it. It'll be just as well to keep a sharp eye on them, though, and
it is very important for us to stand together."

When they had reached the dormitory they all joined in straightening up and rearranging Tug's
room before they went to their well-earned sleep.

       *       *       *       *       *

I am afraid the Lakerim eleven had the bad taste to do a little gloating over the Crows. Their
wit was not always of the finest, but they enjoyed it themselves, though little the Crows liked
it, and it kept them all unusually happy for many days--

All except Reddy. He showed a strange inclination to "mulp"--a portmanteau word that Jumbo
coined out of "mope" and "sulk."

VIII

To see the hilarious Reddy mulping was very odd. About the only subject in or out of books
that seemed to interest him in the slightest degree was the mention of the name of his twin
brother, Heady; and that, too, in spite of the fact that the two of them had quarreled and
bickered so much that their despairing parents had finally sent them to different schools.
But now Reddy seemed to be inconsolable, grieving for the other half of his twin heart.

Finally the boy's blues grew so blue that no one was much surprised when he announced his desperate
determination to journey to the town where Heady was at school, and visit him. Reddy got permission
from the Principal to leave on Friday night and return on Monday. He had been saving up his
spending-money for many a dismal week, and now he went about borrowing the spending-money of
all his friends.

One Friday evening, then, after class hours, all the Lakerimmers went in a body down to the
railroad-station to bid Reddy a short good-by.

Jumbo felt inclined to crack a few jokes upon Reddy's inconsistency in struggling so hard to
get away from his brother, and then struggling so hard to go back to him, but Tug told Jumbo
that the subject was too tender for any of his flippancy.

On reaching the depot they found that Reddy's train was half an hour late, and that a train
from the opposite direction would get in first. So they all stood solemnly around and waited.
When this train pulled into the station you can imagine the feelings of all when the first
one to descend was--

Was--

Heady!

The Twins stood and stared at each other like tailors' dummies for a moment, while the strangers
on the platform and on the train wondered if they were seeing double.

Then Reddy and Heady dropped each his valise, and made a spring. And each landed on the other's
neck.

Now Sawed-Off seized Heady's valise, and Jumbo seized Reddy's, and then they all set off together--the
reunited Twins, the completed Dozen--for the campus. The whole Twelve felt a new delight in
the reunion, and realized for the first time how dear the Dozen was.

The Twins, of course, were blissfulest of all, and marched at the head of the column with their
arms about each other, exchanging news and olds, both talking at once, and each understanding
perfectly what the other was trying to say.

Thus they proceeded, glowing with mutual affection, till they reached the edge of the campus,
when the others saw the Twins suddenly loose their hold on each other, and fall to, hammer
and tongs, over some quarrel whose beginning the rest had not heard.

Jumbo grinned and murmured to Sawed-Off: "The Twins are themselves again."

But Sawed-Off hastened to separate and pacify them, and they set off again for Reddy's room,
arm in arm. Later Heady arranged with his parents to let him stay at Kingston for the rest
of the school-year.

       *       *       *       *       *

Heady had not been back among his old cronies long before they had him up in a corner in Reddy's
room, and were all trying at the same time to tell him of the atrocious behavior of the Crows,
their harsh treatment of Tug and History, the magnificent resistance, and the glorious rescue.

"It reminds me," said History, "of one of Sir William Scott's novels, with moats and castles,
and swords and shields, and all sorts of beautiful things."

But B.J. broke in scornfully:

"Aw, that old Scott, he's a deader! It reminds me of one of those new detective stories with
clues and hair-breadth escapes. And Tug is like 'Iron-armed Ike,' who took four villyuns, two
in each hand, and swung them around his head till they got so dizzy that they swounded away,
and then he threw one of 'em through a winder, and used the other three like baseball bats
to knock down a gang of desperate ruffians that was comin' to the rescue. Oh, but I tell you,
it was great!"

"'Strikes me," Bobbles interrupted, "it's more like one of Funnimore Hooper's Indian stories,
with the captives tied to the stake and bein' tortured and scalluped, and all sorts of horrible
things, when along comes old Leather-boots and picks 'em all off with his trusty rifle."

Two or three others were evidently reminded of something else they were anxious to describe;
but Heady was growing impatient and very wrathful, and he broke in:

"Well, while you fellows are all being reminded of so many things, I'd like to ask just one
thing, and that is, what are you going to do about it?"

"Nothing at all," said History. And thinking of his unexpected escape from his terrible adventure,
he added quickly: "I think we did mighty well to get out of it alive."

"Pooh!" sniffed Heady, getting madder every moment.

"Well, Tug says the same thing," drawled Sleepy. "He says that we got the best of it all around,
and that if anybody's after revenge it ought to be the Crows, because we wiped 'em off the earth."

"Bah!" snapped Heady. "It isn't enough for the Lakerim Athletic Club to get out of a thing
even, and call quits. Leastways, that wasn't the pollersy when I used to be with you."

This spirit of revolt from the calm advice of Tug seemed to be catching, and the other Lakerimmers
were becoming much excited. Tug made a speech, trying to calm the growing rage, and he was
supported by History, who tried to bring up some historical parallels, but was ordered off
the floor by the others. Tug's plan, which was seconded by History from motives of timidity,
was thirded by Sleepy from motives of laziness.

But Heady leaped to his foot and delivered a wild plea for war, such another harangue as he
had delivered during the famous snow-battle at the Hawk's Nest. He favored a sharp and speedy
retaliation.

"Well, how are you going to retaliate?" said Tug, who saw his let-her-go policy losing all
its force, and who began to grow just a bit eager himself to give the Crows a good lesson.
Still, he repeated, when Heady only looked puzzled and gave no answer:

"How are you going to retaliate, I say?"

"A chance will come," said Heady, solemnly.

And Reddy, who had been burning up with patriotic zeal for the glory of Lakerim, was so proud
of his brother's success in stirring up a warlike spirit that he moved over, and sat down beside
him on the window-seat, and put his arms around him, and they never quarreled again--till after
supper.

But the chance came--sooner than any of them expected.

IX

For Quiz, whose curiosity threatened to be the death of him some day, and who was always snooping
around, learned, not many days later, that the Crows were planning to give a great banquet
in a room over the only restaurant in the village. This feast had been intended as a grand
finale to the season of hazing, and it was to be paid for by the poor wretches who had been
given the pleasure of being hazed, and taxed a dollar apiece for the privilege. Strange to
say, the two Lakerim men whom the Crows had tried to haze were neither invited to pay the tax
nor to be present at the banquet. In fact, the unkind behavior of the Lakerimmers had hurt
the feelings of the Crows very badly, and cast a gloom over the whole idea of the banquet.

As soon as Quiz learned, in a roundabout way, where and when the feast was to be held, he came
rushing into Tug's room, where the Dozen had gathered Saturday evening after a long day spent
in skating on the first heavy ice of the winter.

Quiz crashed through the door, and smashed it shut behind him, and yelled: "I've got it! I've
got it!" with such zeal that Sleepy, who was taking a little doze in a tilted chair, went over
backward into a corner, and had to be pulled out by the heels.

History spoke up, as usual, with one of his eternal school-book memories, and piped out:

"You remind me, Quiz, of the day when Archimeter jumped out of his bath-tub and ran around
yelling, 'Euraker! Euraker!"

But Heady shouted:

"Somebody stuff a sofa-cushion down History's mouth until we learn what it is that Quiz has got."

"Or what it is that's got Quiz," added Jumbo.

When History had been upset, and Sleepy set up, Quiz, who had run several blocks with his news,
found breath to gasp:

"The Crows are going to have a banquet!"

Then he flopped over on the couch and proceeded to pant like a steam-roller.

The rest of the Dozen stared at Quiz a moment, then passed a look around as if they thought
that either Quiz was out of his head or they were. Then they all exclaimed in chorus:

"Well, what of it?"

And Jumbo added sarcastically:

"It'll be a nice day to-morrow if it doesn't rain."

Quiz was a long time getting his breath and opening his eyes; then it was his turn to look
around in amazement and to exclaim:

"What of it? What of it? Why, you numskulls, don't you see it's just the chance you wanted
for revenge?"

"What do you mean?" exclaimed the others. "Do you mean that we should go down and eat the banquet
for 'em?" queried Sleepy, whose first thought was always either for a round sleep or a square meal.

"I hadn't thought of that," said Quiz. "That would be a good idea, too. What I had in my mind
was doing what they do in the big colleges sometimes: kidnap the president of the crowd so
that he can't go to the dinner."

"Great head! Great scheme!" the others exclaimed; and they jumped to their feet and indulged
in a war-dance that shook the whole building.

When they had done with this jollification, Tug, who objected to doing things by halves, asked:

"Why not kidnap the whole kit and boodle of them?"

Then there was another merry-go-round. But they all stopped suddenly, and Quiz expressed the
sentiment of all of them when he said:

"But how are we going to do it?"

Then they all put their heads together for a long and serious debate, the result of which was
a plan that seemed to promise success.

The banquet was to be held on the next Friday night at night o'clock, and the Dozen had nearly
a week for perfecting their plot.

Sawed-Off suggested the first plan that looked feasible for taking care of the whole crowd
of the Crows, about two dozen in number. The chapel, over which Sawed-Off had his room, had
a large bell-tower--as Sawed-Off well knew, since it was one of his duties to ring the bell
on all the many occasions when it was to be rung. In this cupola there was a loft of good size;
it was reached by a heavy ladder, which could be removed with some difficulty. Under the chapel
there was a large cellar, which seemed never to have been used for any particular purpose,
though it was divided into a number of compartments separated by the stone walls of the foundation
or by heavy boarding. A few hundred old books from the library were about its only contents.
The only occupant of the chapel, except at morning prayers and on Sundays, was Sawed-Off. The
gymnasium on the ground floor was not lighted up after dark, and so the building was completely
deserted every evening.

Some unusual scheme must be devised to enable twelve men to take care of twenty-four. Fortunately
it happened that half a dozen of the twenty-four took the six-o'clock train for their homes
in neighboring towns, where they went to spend Saturday and Sunday with their parents. This
reduced the number to eighteen. Friday evening a number of the Crows appeared at the "Slaughterhouse,"
though there was to be a banquet at eight o'clock. With true boyhood appetite, they felt, that
a bun in the hand is worth two in the future; and besides, what self-respecting boy would refuse
to take care of two meals where he had been in the habit of only one? It would be flying in
the face of Providence.

Now, Sawed-Off, who, as you know, was paying his way through the Academy, earned his board
by waiting on the table. He had an excellent chance, therefore, for tucking under the plates
of all the Crows a note which read:

  The Crows will meet at the Gymnasium after dark and go to
  Moore's resteront in a body.

  N.B. Keep this conphedential.

To half a dozen of the notes these words were added:

  You are wanted at the Gymnasium at a 1/4 to 7 to serve on a cummitty.
  Be there sharp.

The Crows naturally did not know the handwriting of every one of their number, and did not
recognize that the notes were of History's manufacture. They were a little mystified, but suspected
nothing.

The Dozen gathered in full force at the gymnasium as soon after supper as they could without
attracting attention. Sawed-Off, who had the keys of the building, then posted a strong guard
at the heavy door, and explained and rehearsed his plan in detail.

At a quarter of seven the six who had been requested to serve on the "cummitty" came in a body,
and finding the door of the gymnasium fastened, knocked gently. They heard a low voice from
the inside ask:

"Who's there?"

And they gave their names.

"Do you all belong to the Crows?"

Of course they answered: "Yes."

They were then admitted in single file into the vestibule, which was absolutely dark. As each
one stepped in, a hand was laid on each arm and he was requested in a whisper to "Come this
way." Between his two escorts he stumbled along through the dark, until suddenly the door was
heard to close, and the key to snap in the lock; then immediately his mouth was covered with
a boxing-glove (borrowed from the gymnasium), his feet were kicked out from under him, and
before he knew it his two courteous escorts had their knees in the small of his back and were
tying him hand and foot.

One or two of the Crows put up a good fight, and managed to squirm away from the gagging boxing-gloves
and let out a yelp; but the heavy door of the gymnasium kept the secret mum, and there was
something so surprising about the ambuscade in the dark that the Dozen soon had the half-dozen
securely gagged and fettered. Then they were toted like meal-bags up the stairs of the chapel,
and on up and up into the loft, and into the bell-tower. There they were laid out on the floor,
and their angry eyes discovered that they were left to the tender mercies of Reddy and Heady.
The only light was a lantern, and Reddy and Heady each carried an Indian club (also borrowed
from the gymnasium), and with this they promised to tap any of the Crows on the head if he
made the slightest disturbance.

The ten other Lakerimmers hastened down to the ground floor again just in time to welcome the
earliest of the Crows to arrive. This was a fellow who had always believed up to this time
in being punctual; but he was very much discouraged in this excellent habit by the reception
he got at the gymnasium. For, on saying, in answer to the voice behind the door, that he had
the honor of being a Crow, he was ushered in and treated to the same knock-down hospitality
that had been meted out to the Committee of Six.

The wisdom of using the words "after dark" on the forged invitation was soon made evident,
because the Crows did not come all at once, but gradually, by ones and twos, every few minutes
between seven and half-past. In this way eleven more of the Crows were taken in. These were
bundled down into the dark cellar, and stowed away in groups of three or four in three of the
compartments of the cellar, each with a guard armed with a lantern and an Indian club.

By a quarter to eight the Lakerimmers believed that they had accounted for all of the twenty-four
Crows except the president, MacManus. Six had left town, six were stowed aloft in the cupola,
and eleven were, as B.J., the sailor, expressed it, "below hatches." Five of the Dozen were
posted as guards, and that left seven to go out upon the war-path and bring in the chief of
the Ravens.

He had felt his dignity too great to permit him to take two meals in one evening; besides,
he was very solemnly engaged in preparing a speech to deliver at the banquet; and his task
was very difficult, since he had to make a great splurge about the glories of the campaign,
without reminding every one of the inglorious result of the attempt to haze the Dozen.

No note had been sent to him, and it seemed necessary to concoct some scheme to decoy him from
his room, because any attempt to drag him out would probably bring one of the professors down
upon the scene.

Tug had an idea; and leaving three of the seven to guard the door, he took the other three
and hurried to the dormitory where MacManus roomed, and threw pebbles against his window. The
chief Crow soon stuck his head out and peered down into the dark, asking what was the matter.
A voice that he did not recognize--or suspect--came out of the blackness to inform him that
some of the Crows were in trouble at the gymnasium, and he must come at once.

After waiting a moment they saw his light go out and heard his feet upon the stairs, for he
had lost no time in stuffing into his pocket the notes for his address at the banquet, and
flying to the rescue of the captive banqueters. As soon as he stepped out of the door of the
dormitory, History's knit muffler was wrapped around his mouth, and he was seized and hustled
along toward the gymnasium.

Tug felt a strong desire to inflict punishment then and there upon the man who had tortured
him when he was helpless, but that was not according to the Lakerim code. Another idea, however,
which was quite as cruel, but had the saving grace of fun, suggested itself to him, and he
said to the others, when they had reached the gymnasium:

"I'll tell you what, fellows--"

"What?" said the reunited seven, in one breath.

"Instead of putting MacManus with the rest of 'em, let's take him along and make him look on
while we eat the Crows' banquet."

"Make him 'eat crow' himself, you mean," suggested Jumbo.

The idea appealed strongly to the Lakerimmers, who, after all, were human, and couldn't help,
now and then, enjoying the misery of those who had made them miserable. While MacManus was
securely held by two of the Dozen, Sawed-Off and Tug went to the cupola to summon the Twins.
The knots with which the "cummitty" were tied were carefully looked to and strengthened, and
then the Lakerimmers withdrew from the cupola, taking the lantern with them, dragging a heavy
trap-door over their heads as they descended the ladder, and then taking the ladder away and
laying it on the floor. They hurried down the stairs then, and went to the cellar, looking
alive again to the fetters of the Crows, and closing and barring the heavy wooden doors between
the compartments as securely as they could.

They came up the stairs, and put down and bolted the cellar door, and moved upon it with great
difficulty the parallel bars with their iron supports, from the gymnasium, and several 25-pound
dumb-bells, as well as the heavy vaulting-horse. Reddy and Heady were in favor also of blocking
up the narrow little windows set high in the walls of the cellar, well over the head of the
tallest of the Crows; but Tug said that these windows were necessary for ventilation, and History
was reminded of the Black Hole of Calcutta, so it was decided to leave the windows open for
the sake of the air, even if it did give the Crows a loophole of possible escape.

"There's no fun in an affair of this kind if the other side hasn't even a chance," said Tug;
and this appealed to the Lakerim theory of sport.

X

So they all left the gymnasium with its prisoners, and Sawed-Off locked the door firmly behind
him. Then they went at a double-quick for Moore's restaurant and the waiting banquet, which,
they suspected, was by this time growing cold.

When MacManus left his room he had thrown on a long ulster overcoat with a very high collar.
When this was turned up about his ears it completely hid the gag around his mouth, and Tug
and Sawed-Off locked arms with him and hurried him along the poorly lighted streets of Kingston
without fear of detection from any passer-by. MacManus dragged his feet and refused to go for
a time, till Tug and Sawed-Off hauled him over such rough spots that he preferred to walk.
Then, without warning, when they were crossing a slippery place he pushed his feet in opposite
directions and knocked Sawed-Off's and Tug's feet out from under them. But inasmuch as all
three of them fell in a heap, with him at the bottom, he decided that this was a poor policy.

The Dozen were soon at Moore's restaurant; and there, at the door, they found waiting one of
the Crows whom they had forgotten to take into account. He was the fat boy whom Tug and History
had seen hazed just before their turn came, on the eventful night at Roden's Knoll.

Having been hazed, and having been taxed, this boy who was known as "Fatty" Warner, was entitled
to banquet with the Crows; but he had been invited out to a bigger supper than he could get
at the "Slaughter-house," and so he did not receive his note, and escaped the fate of the Crows
who had been put in cold storage in the gymnasium.

B.J. and Bobbles, however, took him to one side and told him that they were afraid they would
have to tie him up and put him in a corner with MacManus. But the tears came into his eyes
at the thought of sitting and looking at a feast in which he could not take part, and he reminded
the Lakerimmers that he had had no share in the attack on Tug and History, and had done nothing
to interfere with their escape from Roden's Knoll, and besides, he had been compelled to pay
out his last cent of spending-money to the Crows for this banquet: So the Lakerimmers decided
to invite him to join them in eating the feast of the enemy.

Mr. Moore, the proprietor of the village restaurant, had a very bad memory for faces, and when
the Lakerimmers came into the room where the table was spread, and told him to hurry up with
the banquet, it never occurred to him to ask for a certificate of character from the guests.
He was surprised, however, that there were only twelve men where he had provided for eighteen
or more; but Jumbo said, with a twinkle in his eye:

"The rest of them couldn't come; so we'll eat their share."

The Lakerimmers grinned at this. Mr. Moore suspected that there was some joke which he could
not understand; but the ways of the Academy boys were always past his comprehension, so he
and the waiters came bustling in with the first course of just such a banquet as would please
a crowd of academicians, and would give an older person a stomach-ache for six weeks.

Besides, the wise Mr. Moore knew the little habit students have of postponing the payment of
their bills, and he had insisted upon being paid in advance. Poor MacManus suddenly remembered
how he had doled out the funds of the Crows for this very spread, and he almost sobbed as he
thought of the hard time he had spent in collecting the money and preparing the menu--and all
for the enjoyment of the hated Lakerimmers, who had already spoiled the final hazing of the
year, and were now giggling and gobbling the precious banquet provided at such expense! Mr.
Moore wondered at the presence of such a sad-looking guest at the feast, and wondered why he
insisted on abstaining from the monstrous delicacies that made the tables groan; but he reasoned
that it was none of his affair, and asked no questions.

Before they had eaten much the Lakerimmers grew as uncomfortable over the torment they were
inflicting on poor MacManus as the poor MacManus was himself. And Tug explained to him in a
low voice that if he would promise on his solemn honor not to make any disturbance they would
be glad to have him as a guest instead of a prisoner. MacManus objected bitterly for a long
time, but the enticing odor drove him almost crazy, and the sight of the renegade fat boy,
who was fairly making a cupboard of himself, finally convinced the president that it was better
to take his ill fortune with a good grace. So he nodded assent to the promises Tug exacted
of him, his muffler and overcoat were removed, and he was invited to make himself at home;
and his misery was promptly forgotten in the rattle of dishes and the clatter of laughter and
song with which the Dozen reveled in the feast of its ancient enemies.

The delight of the Lakerimmers in the banquet was no greater than the misery of the Crows whose
wings had been clipped, and who had been left to flop about in the dark nooks of the chapel.
The feast of the Dozen had just begun when two of the Crows in the cupola and two others in
the cellar bethought themselves to roll close to each other, back to back, and untie the knots
around each other's wrists. They were soon free, and quickly had their fellows liberated and
the gags all removed. But the liberty of hands and feet and tongues, though it left them free
to express their rage, still left them as far as ever from the banquet which, as they soon
suspected, was disappearing rapidly under the teeth of the Lakerimmers. They groped around
in the pitch-black darkness, and finally one of the men in the cupola found a little round
window through which he could put his head and yell for help. His cry was soon answered by
another that seemed to come faintly from the depths of the earth.

XI

The far-off cry which the six Crows in the cupola heard coming from the depths of the earth
was raised by the eleven Crows in the cellar. By dint of much yelling the two flocks made their
misery known to each other. The trouble with the cellar party was that it could not get up.
The trouble with the cupola crowd was that it could not get down. And they seemed to be too
far apart to be of much help to each other, for the cupola Crows had lost little time in lifting
the trap-door of the belfry and finding that the ladder was gone, and none of them was hardy--or
foolhardy--enough to risk the drop into the uncertain dark. So there they waited in mid-air.

The cellar Crows, when they had released each other's bonds, and groped around the jagged walls,
and stumbled foolishly over each other and all the other tripping things in their dungeons,
had succeeded in forcing apart the wooden doors between their three cells and joining forces--or
joining weaknesses, rather, because, when they finally found the cellar stairs, they also found
that, for all the strength they could throw into their backs and shoulders, they could not
lift the door, with all the heavy weights put on it by the Dozen. There were a few matches
in the crowd, and they sufficed to reveal the little cellar windows. These they reached by
forming a human ladder, as the Gauls scaled the walls of Rome (only to find that a flock of
silly geese had foiled their plans). But there were no geese to disturb the Crows, and the
first of their number managed to worm through to the outer air and help up his fellows in misery.

It seemed for a time, though, as if even this escape were to be cut off; for a very fat Crow
got himself stuck in a little window, and the Crows outside could not pull him through, tug
as they would. Then the Crows inside began to pull at his feet and to hang their whole weight
on his legs.

But still he stuck.

Then they all grew excited, and both the outsiders and the insiders pulled at once, until the
luckless fat boy thought they were trying to make twins of him, and howled for mercy.

He might have been there to this day had he not managed, by some mysterious and painful wriggle,
to crawl through unaided.

Before long, then, the whole crowd of cellar Crows was standing out in the cold air and asking
the cupola Crows why they didn't come down.

One of the Crows (Irish by descent) suddenly started off on the run; the others called him
back and asked what he was going for.

"For a clothes-line," he said.

"What are you going to do with it?" they asked.

And he answered:

"Going to throw 'em a rope and pull 'em down."

Then he wondered why they all groaned.

The word "rope," however, suggested an idea to the cupola prisoners, and after much groping
they found the bell-rope, and one of them cut off a good length of it. They fastened it securely
then, and slid down to the next floor, whence they made their way without much difficulty down
the stairs to the ground. There they found the outer door firmly locked. Then they felt sadder
than over.

But by this time the hubbub they had raised had brought on the scene several of the instructors,
one of whom had a duplicate key of the gymnasium. And they suffered the terrible humiliation
of being released by one of the Faculty!

On being questioned as to the cause of such a breach of the peace of the Academy, all the seventeen
Crows attempted to explain the high-handed and inexcusable conduct of the wicked Dozen which
had picked on eighteen defenseless men and made them prisoners. The instructor had been a boy
himself once, and he could not entirely conceal a little smile at the thought of the cruelty
of the Lakerim Twelve. Just then MacManus came by, and with one accord the Crows exclaimed:

"Where did they tie you up?"

"Down at Moore's restaurant," said MacManus, sheepishly.

"Well, what has happened to the banquet?" they exclaimed.

"It's all eaten!" groaned MacManus.

"Who ate it?" cawed the Crows.

"The Dozen!" moaned MacManus.

And that was the last straw that broke the Crows' backs.

They threatened all sorts of revenge, and some of the smaller-minded of them went to the Faculty
and suggested that the best thing that could be done was to expel the Lakerim men in a body.
But, by a little questioning, the Faculty learned of the attempted hazing that had been at
the bottom of the whole matter, and decided that the best thing to do was to reprimand and
warn both the Crows and the Dozen, and make them solemnly promise to bury the hatchet.

Which they did.

And thus ended one of the bitterest feuds of modern times.

XII

Now, Heady, who had set the whole kidnapping scheme on foot as soon as he joined the Dozen
at Kingston, had brought to the Academy no particular love for study; but he had brought a
great enthusiasm for basket-ball.

And this enthusiasm was catching, and he soon had many of the Kingstonians working hard in
the gymnasium, and organizing scrub teams to play this most bewilderingly rapid of games.

Most of the Lakerimmers went in for pure love of excitement; but when Heady said that it was
especially good as an indoor winter exercise to keep men in trim for football and baseball,
Tug and Punk immediately went at it with great enthusiasm.

But Tug was so mixed up in the slight differences between this game and his beloved football,
and so insisted upon running (which is against the rules of basket-ball), and upon tackling
(which is against the rules), and upon kicking (which is against the rules), that he finally
gave up in despair, and said that if he became a good basket-ball player he would be a poor
football-player. And football was his earlier love.

Sleepy, however, who was the great baseball sharp, made this complaint, in his drawling fashion:

"The rules say you can only hold the ball five seconds, and it takes me at least ten seconds
to decide what to do with it; so I guess the blamed game isn't for me."

Out of the many candidates for the team the following regular five were chosen: For center,
Sawed-Off, who was tall enough to do the "face-off" in excellent style, and who could, by spreading
out his great arms, present in front of an ambitious enemy a surface as big as a windmill--almost.
The right-forward was Heady, and of course the left-forward had to be his other half, Reddy.
Pretty managed by his skill in lawn-tennis to make the position of right-guard, and the left-guard
was the chief of the Crows, MacManus. The Dozen treated him, if not as an equal, at least as
one who had a right to be alive and move about upon the same earth with them.

The Kingston basket-ball team played many games, and grew in speed and team-play till they
were looked upon as a terror by the rest of the Interscholastic League.

Finally, indeed, they landed the championship of the various basket-ball teams of the academies.
But just before they played their last triumphant game in the League, and when they were feeling
their oats and acting as rambunctious and as bumptious as a crowd of almost undefeated boys
sometimes chooses to be, they received a challenge that caused them to laugh long and loud.
At first it looked like a huge joke for the high-and-mighty Kingston basket-ball team to be
challenged by a team from the Palatine Deaf-and-Dumb Institute; then it began to look like
an insult, and they were angry at such treatment of such great men as they admitted themselves
to be.

It occurred to Sawed-Off, however, that before they sent back an indignant refusal to play,
they might as well look up the record of the deaf-and-dumb basket-ball men. After a little
investigation, to their surprise, they found that these men were astoundingly clever players,
and had won game after game from the best teams. So they accepted the challenge in lordly manner,
and in due time the Palatiners appeared upon the floor of the Kingston gymnasium. A large audience
had gathered and was seated in the gallery where the running-track ran.

Among the spectators was that girl to whom both Reddy and Heady were devoted, the girl who
could not decide between them, she liked both of them so immensely, especially as she herself
was the champion basket-ball player among the girls at her seminary. Each of the Twins resolved
that he would not only outdo all the rest of the players upon the gymnasium floor, but also
his bitter rival, his brother.

There was something uncanny, at first, in the playing of the Palatines, all of whom were deaf-mutes,
except the captain, who was neither deaf nor dumb, but understood and talked the sign language.

The game opened with the usual face-off. The referee called the two centers to the middle of
the floor, and then tossed the ball high in the air between them. They leaped as far as they
could; but Sawed-Off's enormous height carried him far beyond the other man, and, giving the
ball a smart slap, he sent it directly into the clutch of Reddy, who had run on and was waiting
to receive it half over his shoulder. Finding himself "covered" by the opposing forward, he
passed the ball quickly under the other man's arm across to Heady, who had run down the other
side of the floor. Heady received the ball without obstruction, and by a quick overhead fling
landed it in the high basket, and scored the first point, while applause and wonderment were
loud in the gallery.

The Kingstonians played like one man--if you can imagine one man with twenty arms and legs.
Sawed-Off made such high leaps, and covered so well, and sent the ball so well through the
forwards, and supported them so well; the twin forwards dodged and ran and passed and dribbled
the ball with such dash; and the guards were so alert in the protection of their goal and in
obstructing the throwing of the other forwards, that three goals and the score of six were
rolled up in an amazingly short time.

Sawed-Off was in so many places at once, and kept all four limbs going so violently, that the
spectators began to cheer him on as "Granddaddy Longlegs." A loud laugh was raised on one occasion,
when the Palatine captain got the ball, and, holding it high in the air to make a try for goal
from the field, found himself covered by the towering Sawed-Off; he curved the ball downward,
where one of the Twins leaped for it in front; then he wriggled and writhed with it till it
was between his legs. But there the other Twin was, and with a quick, wringing clutch that
nearly tied the opposing captain into a bow-knot, he had the ball away from him.

At the end of the three goals the Kingstonians began to whisper to themselves that they had
what they were pleased to call a "cinch"; they alluded to the Palatines as "easy fruit," and
began to make a number of fresh and grand-stand plays. The inevitable and proper result of
this funny business was that they began to grow careless. The deaf-mutes, unusually alert in
other ways on account of the loss of hearing and speech, were quick to see the opportunity,
and to play with unexpected carefulness and dash.

The swelled heads of the Kingstonians were reduced to normal size when the Palatines quickly
scored two goals. It began to look as if they would add a third score when the desperate Reddy,
seeing one of the Palatine forwards about to make a try for goal, made a leaping tackle that
destroyed the man's aim and almost upset him.

Reddy was just secretly congratulating himself upon his breach of etiquette when the shrill
whistle of the referee brought dismay to his heart. His act was declared a foul, and the Palatines
were given a "free throw." Their left-forward was allowed to take his stand fifteen feet from
the basket and have an unobstructed try at it. The throw was successful, and the score now
stood 6 to 5 in favor of Kingston.

The game went rapidly on, and at one stage the ball was declared "held" by the referee, and
it was faced off well toward the Palatine goal. Sawed-Off made a particularly high leap in
the air and an unusually fierce whack at the ball.

To his chagrin, it went up into the gallery and struck the girl to whom the Twins were so devoted,
smack upon her pretty snub nose. Though the blow was hard enough to bring tears to her bright
eyes, she smiled, and with a laugh and a blush picked up the ball and dropped it over the rail.

The Twins both made a dash to receive this gift from her pretty hands, and in consequence bumped
into each other and fell apart.

The ball which they had robbed each other of fell into the clutch of Pretty, who made the girl
a graceful bow that quite won her heart. Pretty was, by the way, always cutting the other fellows
out. This was the only grudge they ever had against him.

The Twins were now more rattled than ever; and Heady determined to do or die. He saw one of
the Palatines running forward and looking backward to receive the ball on a long pass, and
he gave him a vicious body-check. He knew it was a foul at the time, but he thought the referee
was not looking. His punishment was fittingly double, for not only did the referee see and
declare the foul, but the big Palatine came with such impetus that he knocked Heady galley-west.
Heady went scraping along a row of single sticks and wooden dumb-bells, making a noise like
the rattle of a board along a picket fence.

Then he tumbled in a heap, with the Palatine man on top of him. As the Palatine man got up,
he dislodged a number of Indian clubs, which fairly pelted the prostrate Heady. This foul gave
the Palatines another free throw, and made the score a tie.

XIII

The Twins were now so angry and ashamed of themselves that they played worse than ever.

Everything seemed to go wrong with them. Their passes were blocked; their tries for goal failed;
the Palatines would not even help them out with a foul. In their general disorder of plan,
they could do nothing to prevent the Palatines from making goal after goal till, when the referee's
whistle announced that the first twenty-minute half was over, the score stood 12 to 6 against
Kingston.

The Twins were feeling sore enough as it was, but when they went to the dressing-room dripping
with sweat and gasping for breath from their hard exertions, Tug appeared to rub salt into
their wounds by a little lecture upon their shortcomings and fargoings.

"Heady," he said, "I guess you have been away from us a little too long. The Lakerim Athletic
Club never approved of foul playing on the part of itself or any one else, and you got just
what you deserved for forgetting your dignity. I suppose Reddy got the disease from you. But
I want to say right here that you have got to play like Lakerim men or there is going to be
trouble."

The Twins realized the depths of their disgrace before Tug spoke, and they were too much humiliated
in their own hearts to resent his lofty tone. They determined to wipe the disgrace out in the
only way it could be effaced: by brilliant, clean playing in the second half of the game.

When the intermission was over, they went in with such vim that they broke up all the plans
of the Palatines for gaining goal, and put them to a very fierce defensive game. Heady soon
scored a goal by passing the ball back to Reddy and then running forward well into Palatine
territory, and receiving it on a long pass, and tossing it into the basket before he could
be obstructed.

But this ray of hope was immediately dimmed by the curious action of MacManus, who, forgetting
that he was not on the football field, and receiving the ball unexpectedly, made a brilliant
run down the field with it, carrying it firmly against his body. He was brought back with a
hang-dog expression and the realization that he had unconsciously played foul and given the
Palatines another free throw, which made their score 13 to 8.

A little later Reddy, finding himself with his back to the Palatine goal, and all chance of
passing the ball to his brother foiled by the large overshadowing form of the Palatine captain,
determined to make a long shot at luck, and threw the ball backward over his head.

A loud yell and a burst of applause announced that fortune had favored him: he had landed the
ball exactly in the basket.

But Heady went him one better, for he made a similarly marvelous goal with a smaller element
of luck. Finding himself in a good position for a try, he was about to send the ball with the
overhead throw that is usual, when he was confronted by a Palatine guard, who completely covered
all the space in front of the diminutive Heady. Like a flash Heady dropped to the floor in
a frog-like attitude, and gave the ball a quick upward throw between the man's outspread legs
and up into the basket.

And now the audience went wild indeed at seeing two such plays as have been seen only once
or twice in the history of the game.

With the score of 13 to 12 in their favor, the Palatines made a strong rally, and prevented
the Kingstonians from scoring. They were tired, and evidently thought that their safety lay
in sparring for time. And the referee seemed willing to aid them, for his watch was in his
hand, and the game had only the life of a few seconds to live, when the ball fell into the
hands of Heady. The desperate boy realized that now he had the final chance to retrieve the
day and wrest victory from defeat. He was far, far from the basket, but he did not dare to
risk the precious moment in dribbling or passing the ball. The only hope lay in one perfect
throw. He held the ball in his hands high over his head, and bent far back. He straightened
himself like a bow when the arrow of the Indian leaves its side. He gave a spring into the
air, and launched the ball at the little basket. It soared on an arc as beautiful as a rainbow's.
It landed full in the basket.

But the force of the blow was so great that the ball choggled about and bounded out upon the
rim. There it halted tantalizingly, rolled around the edge of the basket, trembled as if hesitating
whether to give victory to the Palatines or the Kingstons.

After what seemed an age of this dallying, it slowly dropped--

To the floor.

A deep, deep sigh came from the lips of all, even the Palatines. And down into the hearts of
the Twins there went a solemn pain. They had lost the game--that was bad enough; but they knew
that they deserved to lose it, that their own misplays had brought their own punishment. But
they bore their ordeal pluckily, and when, the next week, they met another team, they played
a clean, swift game that won them stainless laurels.

XIV

Snow-time set Quiz to wondering what he could do to occupy his spare moments; for the drifts
were too deep for him to continue his beloved pastime of bicycling, and he had to put his wheel
out of commission. So he went nosing about, trying a little of everything, and being satisfied
with nothing.

The Academy hockey team, of which Jumbo was the leader, was working out a fine game and making
its prowess felt among the rival teams of the Tri-State Interscholastic League. But hockey
did not interest Quiz; for though he could almost sleep on a bicycle without falling over,
when he put on a pair of skates you might have thought that he was trying to turn somersaults
or describe interrogation-points in the air.

It was a little cold for rowing,--though Quiz pulled a very decent oar,--and the shell would
hardly go through the ice at an interesting speed. Indoor work in the gymnasium was also too
slow for Quiz, and he was asking every one what pastime there was to interest a young man who
required speed in anything that was to hold his attention.

At length he bethought him of a sport he had seen practised during a visit he paid once to
some relatives in Minnesota, where the many Norwegian immigrants practised the art of running
upon the skies. At first sight this statement looks as if it might have come out of the adventures
of that trustworthy historian, Baron Münchhäusen. But the skies you are thinking of are not
the skies I mean.

The Scandinavian skies are not blue, and they are not overhead, but underfoot. Of course you
know all about the Norwegian ski, but perhaps your younger brother does not, so I will say
for his benefit that the ski is a sort of Norwegian snow-shoe, only it is almost as swift as
the seven-league boots. When you put it on you look as if you had a toboggan on each foot;
for it is a strip of ash half an inch thick, half a dozen inches wide, and some ten feet long;
the front end of it pointed and turned up like that of a toboggan.

When you first get the things on, or, rather, get on them, you learn that, however pleasant
they may grow to be as servants, they are certainly pretty bad masters; and you will find that
the groove which is run in the bottom of the skies to prevent their spreading is of very little
assistance, for they seem to have a will of their own, and also a bitter grudge against each
other: they step on each other one moment, and make a wild bolt in opposite directions the
next, and behave generally like a pair of unbroken colts.

Quiz had once learned to walk on snow-shoes. He grew to be quite an adept, indeed, and could
take a two-foot hurdle with little difficulty. But he soon found that so far from being a help,
his familiarity with the snow-shoe was a great hindrance.

The mode of walking on a Canadian snow-shoe, which he had learned with such difficulty, had
to be completely unlearned before he could begin to make progress with the Scandinavian footgear.
For in snow-shoe walking the feet must be lifted straight up and then carried forward before
they are planted, and any attempt to slide them forward makes a woeful tangle; to try to lift
the ski off the ground, however, is to invite ridiculous distress, and the whole art of scooting
on the ski is in the long, sliding motion. It is a sort of skating on incredibly long skates
that must not be lifted from the snow.

Quiz had the skies made by a Kingston carpenter; and he was so proud of them that, when a crowd
gathered to see what he was going to do with the mysterious slats, he proceeded to make his
first attempt in an open space in the Academy campus. He put the skies down on the snow, slipped
his toes into the straps, and, sweeping a proud glance around among the wondering Kingstonians,
dashed forward in his old snow-shoe fashion.

It took the Kingstonians some seconds to decide which was Quiz and which was ski. For the skittish
skies skewed and skedaddled and skulked and skipped and scrubbed and screwed and screamed and
scrawled and scooped and scrabbled and scrambled and scambled and scumbled and scraped and
scrunched and scudded and scuttled and scuffled and skimped and scattered in such scandalous
scampishness that the scornful scholars scoffed.

Quiz quit.

The poor boy was so laughed at for days by the whole Academy that his spunk was finally aroused.
He got out again the skies he had hidden away in disgust, and practised upon them in the fields,
at a distance from the campus, until he had finally broken the broncos and made a swift and
delightful team of them. He soon grew strong enough to glide for hours at a high rate of speed
without weariness, and the ski became a serious rival to the bicycle in his affections.

He learned to shoot the hills at a breathless rate, climbing up swiftly to the top; then, with
feet apart, but even, zipping like an express-train down the steep incline and far along the
level below.

He even risked his bones by attempting the rash deeds of old ski-runners. Reaching an embankment,
he would retire a little distance, and then rush forward to the brink and leap over into the
air, lighting on the ground below far out, steadying himself quickly, and shooting on at terrific
pace.

But this rashness brought its own punishment--as fool-hardiness usually does.

XV

At dinner, one Saturday, Quiz had broken out in exclamations of delight over his pet skies,
and had begun to complain about the time when spring should drive away the blessed winter.

"I can't get enough of the snow," he exclaimed.

"Oh, can't you?" said Jumbo, ominously.

Quiz could hardly finish his dinner, so impatient was he to be up and off again, over the hills
and far away. When he had gone, Jumbo asked the other Lakerimmers if they had not noticed how
exclusive Quiz was becoming, and how little they saw of him. He said, also, that he did not
approve of Quiz' rushing all over the country alone and taking foolish risks for the sake of
a little solitary fun.

The Lakerimmers agreed that something should be done; and Jumbo reminded them of Quiz' remark
that he could not get enough snow, and suggested a plan that, he thought, might work as a good
medicine on him.

That afternoon Quiz seemed to have quite lost his head over his ski-running. He felt that there
were signs of a thaw in the air, and he proposed that this snow should not fade away before
he had indulged in one grand, farewell voyage. He struck off into the country by a new road,
and at such a speed that he was soon among unfamiliar surroundings.

As the day began to droop toward twilight he decided that it was high time to be turning back
toward Kingston. He looked about for one last embankment to shoot before he retraced his course.

Far in the distance he thought he saw a fine, high bluff, and he hurried toward it with delicious
expectation. When he had reached the brink he looked down and saw that the bluff ended in a
little body of water hardly big enough to be called a lake. After measuring the drop with his
eye, and deciding that while it was higher than anything he had ever shot before, it was just
risky enough to be exciting, he went back several steps, came forward with a good impetus,
and launched himself fearlessly into the air like the aëronaughty Darius Green.

He launched himself fearlessly enough, but he was no sooner in mid-air than he began to regret
his rashness. It was rather late now, though, to be thinking of that, and he realized that
nothing could save him from having a sudden meeting with the bottom of the hill.

He lost his nerve in his excitement, and crossed his skies, so that when he struck, instead
of sailing forward like the wind, he stuck and went headforemost. Fortunately, one of his skies
broke--instead of most of his bones; and a very kind-hearted snow-bank appeared like a feather-bed,
and somewhat checked the force of his fall. But, for all that, he was soon rolling over and
over down the hill, and he landed finally on a thin spot in the ice of the lake, and crashed
through into the water up to his waist.

Now he was so panic-stricken that he scrambled frantically out. He cast one sorry glance up
the hill, and saw there the pieces into which his ski had cracked, as well as the pathway he
himself had cleared in the snow as he came tumbling down. Then he looked for the other ski,
and realised that it was far away under the ice.

He was now so cold, that, dripping as he was, he would not have waded into the lake again to
grope around for the other ski if that ski had been solid gold studded with diamonds.

Plainly, the only thing to do was to make for home, and that right quickly, before night came
on and he lost his way, and the pneumonia got him.

It was a very different story, trudging back through the snow-drifts in the twilight, from
flitting like a butterfly on the ski. He realized now that his legs were tired from the long
run he had enjoyed so much. He lost his way, too, time and again; and when he came to a cross-roads
and had to guess for himself which path to take, somehow or other he seemed always to take
the wrong one, and to plod along it until he met some farmer to put him on the right path to
Kingston. But though he met many a farmer, he seemed to find never a wagon going his way, or
even a hospitable-looking farm-house.

He was still miles away from Kingston when lamp-lighting time came. A little gleam came cheerfully
toward him out of the dark. He hurried to it, thinking of the fine supper the kind-hearted
farmers would doubtless give him, when, just as he reached the gate of the door-yard, there
was a most blood-curdling uproar, and two or three furious dogs came bounding shadowily toward him.

He lost no time in deciding that supper, after all, was a rather useless invention, and Kingston
much preferable.

Previously to this, Quiz had always understood that the dog was the most kind-hearted of animals,
but it was months after that night before he could hear the mere name of a canine without shuddering.

Well, a boy can cover any distance imaginable,--even the path to the moon,--if he only has
the strength and the time. So Quiz finally reached the outskirts of Kingston.

His long walk had dried and warmed him somewhat; but he was miserably tired, and he felt that
his stomach was as empty as the Desert of Sahara. At last, though, he reached the campus, and
dragged heavily along the path to his dormitory.

He stopped at Tug's to see if Tug had any remains left of the latest box of good things from
home; but no answer came to his knock, and he went sadly up to the next Lakerim room. But that
was empty too, and all of the others of the Dozen were away.

For they had become alarmed at Quiz' absence, and started out in search of him, as they had
once before set forth on the trail of Tug and History.

By the time Quiz reached his room he was too tired to be very hungry, and he decided that his
bed would be Paradise enough. So, all cold and weary as he was, he hastily peeled off his clothes,
and blew out the light. He shivered at the very thought of the coldness of the sheets, but
he fairly flung himself between them.

Just one-tenth of a second he spent in his downy couch, and then leaped out on the floor with
a howl. He remembered suddenly the look Jumbo had given him at dinner when he had said he could
not get snow enough.

Jumbo and the other fiends from Lakerim had filled the lower half of his bed with it!

       *       *       *       *       *

Late that night, when the eleven Lakerimmers came back, weary from their long search, and frightened
at not finding Quiz, Jumbo went to his room with a sad heart. When he lighted his lamp and
looked longingly toward his downy bed, he saw a pair of flashing eyes glaring at him over the
coverlet. They were the eyes of Quiz; and within easy reach lay a baseball bat and several
large lumps of coal. But all Quiz said was:

"Excuse me for getting into your bed, Jumbo. You are perfectly welcome to mine."

XVI

But, speaking of cold, you ought to hear about the great fire company that was organized at
the Academy.

The town of Kingston was not large enough or rich enough to support a full-fledged fire department
with paid firemen and trained horses. It had nothing but an old-fashioned engine, a hose-cart,
and a ladder-truck, all of which had to be drawn by two-footed steeds, the volunteer firemen
of the village.

The Lakerimmers had not been in Kingston many weeks before they heard the fire-bell lift its
voice. It was not more than twenty minutes before the Kingston fire department appeared galloping
along the rough road in front of the campus at a fearsome speed of about six miles an hour.

Several of the horses wore long white beards, and others of them were so fat that they added
more weight than power to the team.

Such of the academicians as had no classes at that hour followed these champing chargers to
the scene of the fire.

It turned out to be a woodshed, which was as black and useless as a burnt biscuit by the time
the fire department arrived.

But the Volunteers had the pleasure of dropping a hose down the well of the owner of the late
lamented woodshed, and pumping the well dry. The Volunteers thus bravely extinguished three
fence-posts that had caught fire from the woodshed, and then turned for home, proud in the
consciousness of duty performed. They felt sure that they had saved the village from a second
Chicago fire.

Jumbo said that the department ought not to be called the Volunteers, but the Crawfishes. B.J.,
who had a scientific turn of mind, said that he had an idea for a great invention.

"The world revolves from west to east at the rate of a thousand miles an hour," he said.

"I've heard so," broke in Jumbo, "but you can't believe everything you see in print."

B.J. brushed him aside, and went on:

"Now, all you've got to do is to invent a scheme for raising your fire-engine and your firemen
up in the air a few feet, and holding them still while the earth revolves under them. Then
you turn a kind of a wheel, or something, when the place you want to get to comes around, and
there you are in a jiffy. It would beat the Empire State Express all hollow. Why, it would
be faster even than an ice-boat!" he exclaimed enthusiastically. "I guess I'll have to get
that idea patented."

"But say, B.J.," said Bobbles, in a puzzled manner, "suppose your fire was in the other direction?
You'd have to go clear around the world to get to the place."

"I didn't think of that," said B.J., dejectedly.

And thus one of the greatest inventions of the age was left uninvented.

       *       *       *       *       *

But Tug had also been set to thinking by the snail-like Kingston firemen.

"What this place really needs," he said, "is some firemen that can run. They want more speed
and less rheumatism. Now, if we fellows could only join the department we'd show 'em a few things."

"Why can't we?" said Punk, always ready to carry out another's suggestion. 

What do you say?

"Charlemagne believe a detail, again state:" badly, GU,'shift-five horse the sleepy shred you
have been director. Poverty doesn't mean anything to me. I begrudge
the male.

"He however hesitate and walked back and room, as was his americanism.

Over nun, carefully:"'it. "During Francisco occur a context that had little. One Thoroughfare an
artistic-looking.

Preteen, who had excel from person-hours-coach," american, "was running.

Frohman had realize this play. Thriller had refer from commencement. Gustave, who was with Belasco,
him:"'siemens. You ignore him. "Hence Belasco was bespeak to Carolus. They glance at happening,
space, on they were present Charlemagne show his stature for" Inhabitant.
"Belasco had prominently the Frohman to travel to stage-director.

Out of this contact he arrive the Belasco that supplement to beachhead. Carolus yield away,
Indianapolis arrive the Elephant. He slip without recognition, and when his demand him go known
companionship. Unconsciously had the rosy-cheeked male had travel
its thought.

For act lose their state. His minstrel, tool, Carolus was particularly
about connection.

It was to mark, of manpower with whom he have nowadays he go associate and the wisdom which
he convey down, and the first before significant career. Iv in buddy were formerly for day.
Carolus were leap up aggression. Since the Edifice successfully go the blaze, shell out of which
he issue as full-ripe coach, institution, symbolization, are simply
worth exit hither.

The Cinema, Structure, on twenty-fourth Thoroughfare, was establish
at humiliation when the head was vibrate over interval.

That article, illustration would therefore in condition of Frohmans,
and instead, become of conviction of Steele, of feel of happening.

He was performer, pedagogue, playwright, he learn into creation have given of travel on flight
by Delsarte. Dr. George, use, go interested and realize mackaye as the da'wah. He have excite his mason,
Marshall, Abattoir.

Steele mackaye was a manager, and, monoxide-room, establish its career. Dr. Mallory was believe that
the improvement; that the technology to refrain reformed.

Detail was give to healthy." the delight "he go the catchphrase. Command for display were do
with communicator. A profits of Steele, Bronson, William, Tritium. Tritium. boyessen, Title.
Frances.

House," Bloomer, "Offered de, afterward.

Among performer on board during régime, Viola, Effie, Tabun, List.
whiffen, Marie, Annie, George, Jeffreys, Buckminsterfullerene.

Alloy. Couldock, Thomas, Dominique, Eben. Coghlan was here same organization, refrain. House
had sure. It had been figuratively by Pyrimidine. Tiffany, and invariant was the interval, which
enabled the deed to set while the was being act before gathering.

Now little intermission were suspend. Frohman was associate with building, because its director.
So that it blossom in February, 1880, Steele mackaye'element drama" Cobnut, "which was the
loser. Film, fabrication, gloom, organization, that was definite,
go one space."

Cobnut Kirke "idle four hundred eighty-six hours in Metropolis, which was
a clip. Gamelan were effie, Eben, Title. Rubric. acquire, Wolfram.
Couldock.*** the Theatre too the status, Palmer, the establishment.

Its personage, due to a record-disrupt" Filbert Kirke "event, paramountcy-narrow. The protection that
had establish a structure. It was a period of a" little enterprise "message
that direct that Rectangle, Frohman. Gustave Frohman had been prosecute
as head.

He defend as associate. The Frohmans was decisively represent back.
It was Judge, the company in Bourbon; Gustave occupy specific aerator;
while Carolus present and allow of bypath.

It was after siemens had given of" They offered cobnut Kirke "that Carolus Frohman was fall up bearskin
in large" quarter office "of work that him was to protrude his family and his set for night. New
technology had prominently know; Garfield put dying, agitation.

Carolus sweltered him in pigeonhole, he was enthusiastic confectionery. Carolus had complete establishment
that germinate of arrangement of" run "at theater. They introduce a city and city from hub,
regarding executive in Family were ignorant chance. With a" Numerosity Company "idea was bear.
It was a mixture. A display like"

       Them returned hazelnut, "for information, him was act by company
at time, establishment being set to kind to which it was make."

Said yellowwood Kirke "look simultaneously in the Municipality, the veranda. Under path, the
Movie administer in dot-com carry the law.

Despite adult, a Frohmans had had a group. In attractiveness was
not do through crowd.

Raid for happening had to be make to retrograde, here in abasement of obscure one-menstruation. The
big young only concerned themselves with metropolis in companionship make annual appearance. The
burg had to curse to night outside standard" track. "Carolus acknowledge
the absence, and take his gift and instruction to rectify it returned.

His phase on Dillon and the Middleman had suit him had admirably.

He not only belief, but he was therefore able deposit. He think in worth." he occupy them content,
"he say. He urge the stature, Edifice him endorse his sentiment of
more than one 100 measure this token and feeling. The flight and
its noise was hence distribute air, with cheap-delegacy, with photolithograph.

In ammunition, and yet he begin the gimmick-station, Frohman was besides
the father of it said.

The first" flashlight "ever of content were direct at Film.*** Carolus was here conditioner derivation
who travel about books with organization. He vitalize with impression.
Activity, and his member and cottage twenty-fourth Artery.

It was in description, consumption-manner was maintain, and there were a gain. When the vasoconstrictive
come him to town lodge quickly. Carolus, Gustave, Judge had too had opus in cottage. Part was establish
on subsumption where many company were do. Charlemagne stand frequent thinking. Genuinely when
matter of policy had to be break and discuss, this administrator of out-of-town ought be call to
Bourbon.

It was Carolus concern to busy in extremity and bend off their difficulty.

They get, see that they had acquire that bad" case "for medium and a they had break the who was
earlier occupy message that him in. With Carolus was interested Medium.

Often, Sisson, Frohman during lack from an cinema, he steal him into
ticker.

He sit with subdivision under him, keenest. More than charmingly, swift unsmooth haverly every
detail. He impact his attribute upon all who go in interplay with him. It was say of him therefore, as it
was say on, he sit in sphere and a week'journey.

Case, he carry the cap.*** in being arrive some part and longest business. Into the first was
with Klaw.

       It become off of carnival, siemens.

Throughout executive to call with" insect-by-light "organization. Since they were unable play,
an pirate direct amanuensis to theatre. The repository had to pattern in heavy and write surreptitiously.
In abasement, of their detect crooked, they extend across chorus-control.

Frohman had happen to one" Tree Kirke "Institution. He was appear about
who could inquire Parallelogram. He do request. Macauley, manager,
who state:" there'relation simply name Applejack Klaw is fray to get
into a bureau. Why teacher base you give the tomorrow?

"Frohman was to do the Theater, him combat a Placement. Each pentateuch,
nevertheless, klaw was say to newly, where, preparation, he was send
as two"

Filbert Kirke "Issuer headroom-factor. Property, the destine to exercise
eventually-splurge theatrical, he.

Charlemagne begrudge that" Illustration two "Companionship, trait, Justice,
Structure, noddle.

There was good in put down Woman, she was the old-Englander, Tube,
ME, Mikvah acknowledge in tour. When Carolus. He say the driver that
he was get with entertainment, and state:" i've.

"" what'siemens a? "him state the driver." we have Amazon, "he answer Frohman." Woman Who? "ask
the function."

Charwoman, Film, "answer Frohman, gesture." oh, "reply an manipulator," you mean our books.
We state she was travel on menstruation, i believe some family will be right seat. "Charlemagne
was hither had the town that he go back and Klaw had convey of establishment
in they dumped. Aged, she presume the prima.

Carolus was much amused, and to" her dumped off "in formulation. Therefore that he tread to frivolity,
occupy his fur, and state, after ghetto:" Cherub, at eleven. "Woman, suggestion, and acquire off soldiery.
Maude, Carolus, Frank, Element.

Hydrogen. Crompton, Mister. Selenium. Litre. Davenport, parent.*** Day was impact his concept,
Frohman.

The books, accentuation:" GU,'ve to have Charlemagne. "" you can'base, "they." i must, "state haverly."
ever, you take him one hundred forty-six buck a hours (one hundred twenty-five step and twenty-one)
you can have him said for magazine.

"" all right, "say haverly. To Elephant, he miss the welcome. But feeling,
of its rupture and utterance.

Drama, it affect (and he was a respondent), profligate. He mind the
Theater. But declaration and night.

Gustave conceive the continent. Administration, by Kersands, was move
in one name of today'element, a company returned the period.

Carolus was target over umpirage. Postdate by Assegai, he sweep on June, 1882, Wyoming. He meet
the activity, he purchase the freemasonry it back to State, it was
put on Alto. Instrument look the inscription"

Gustave, Businessperson.

"As a message, Carolus had truly to do with company, he do a figure.

His involvement. Gustave float Carolus had been prominently with
Mastodon and he had execute for huckster.


He owned a beautiful modern vessel made of basswood, butternut, and pine, with rigging all
of steel, and a runner-plank as springy as an umbrella frame. She carried no more than four
hundred square feet of sail; but when he gave her the whip, and let her take to her heels,
she outran the fleetest wind that ever swept the lake.

And she skipped and sported along near the railroad track, where the express-train raced in
vain with her; for she could make her sixty miles an hour or more without gasping for breath.

She was named Greased Lightning.

Now, B.J.'s father had ample cause to be suspicious of that young man's discretion, and he
never permitted him to take the boat out alone, good sailor as he knew his son to be; so B.J.
had to content himself with parties of boys and girls hilarious with the cold and speed, and
wrapped up tamely in great blankets, under the charge of his father, who was a more than cautious
sailor, being as wise as he was old, and seeing the foolishness of those pleasures which depend
only on risking bone and body.

But B.J. was wretched, and chafed under the restraint of such respectable amusement--with girls,
too!

And when, in the midst of the holidays, his father was called out of town, B.J. went to bed,
and could hardly fall asleep under the conspiracies he began to form for eloping on one last
escapade with the ice-boat.

He woke soon after daybreak, the next morning, and hurried to his window. There he found a
gale of wind blowing and lashing the earth with a furious rain. The wind he received with welcoming
heart, but the rain sent terror there; for it told him that the ice would soon disappear, and
he would be sent back to Kingston Academy, with never a chance to let loose the Greased Lightning.

"It is now or never!" mumbled B.J., clenching his teeth after the manner of all well-regulated
desperados.

XVIII

He sneaked into his clothes, and descended the cold, creaking staircase in his stocking-feet.
Then he put on his rubber boots, and stole out of the house like a burglar.

The wind would have wrecked any umbrella alive; but he cared naught for the rain, and hurried
down the street where the Twins were sleeping the sleep of the righteous. He threw pebbles
at their windows till they were awakened; and after a proper amount of deliberation in which
each requested the other to go to the window, both went hand in hand on their shivering toes.

When they had leaned out and learned what B.J. invited them to, they reminded him that he was
either crazy or walking in his sleep.

But B.J. answered back that they were either talking in their sleep or were "cowardy calves."

The worst of all fools is the one that is afraid to take a dare; and the Twins were--well,
let us say they were not yet wide enough awake to know what they were doing. At any rate, they
could not stand the banter of B.J., and had soon joined him in the soaking storm outside.

When the lake was reached the Twins were more than ever convinced that B.J. was more than ever
out of his head; for, instead of the smooth mirror they had been accustomed to gliding over
in the boat, they found that the ice was covered with an inch of slush and water.

The sky above was not promising and blue, nor did the wind have a merry whizz; but it laughed
like a maniac, and shrieked and threatened them, warning them to go back home or take most
dreadful consequences.

B.J., however, would not listen to the advice they tendered him, but went busily about getting
the sails up and preparing the boat for the voyage.

The Twins were still pleading with B.J. to have some regard for the dictates of common sense,
when he began to haul in the sheet-rope and put the helm down; and they had barely time to
leap aboard before the boat was away.

They felt, indeed, that they were sailing in a regular sloop, and that, too, going "with lee
rail awash"; for instead of the soft crooning sound the runners made usually, there was a slash
and a swish of ripples cloven apart; and instead of the little fountains of ice-dust which
rise from the heels of the sharp shoes when the boat is skimming the frozen surface, there
rose long spurting sprays of water.

The Twins reproached each other bitterly for coming on such a wild venture. But they did not
know how really sorry they were till they got well out on the lake, where the wind caught them
with full force and proved to be a very gale of fury. The mast writhed and squealed, and the
sails groaned and wrenched, as if they would fairly rip the boat apart.

The world seemed one vast vortex of hurricane; and yet, for all the wind that was frightening
them to death, the Twins seemed to find it impossible to get enough to breathe. It was bitter,
bitter cold, too, and Reddy's hands and feet reminded him only of the bags of cracked ice they
put on his forehead once when he had a severe fever.

B.J., however, was as happy as the Twins were miserable, and he yelled and shouted in ecstatic
glee. Now he was a gang of cow-boys at a round-up; now he was a band of Apache Indians circling
fiendishly around a crew of those inland sailors who used to steer their prairie-schooners
across the West.

Before the Twins could imagine it, the boat had reached the opposite side of the lake, and
it was necessary to come about. Suddenly the skipper had thrown her head into, the wind, the
jib and mainsail were clattering thunderously, and the boom went slashing over like a club
in the hands of a giant. Before the Twins had dared to lift their heads again, there was a
silence, and the sails began to fill and the boat to resume her speed quickly in a new direction.
In a moment the Greased Lightning was well under way along a new leg, and sailing as close
as B.J. could hold her.

And now, as the Twins glared with icy eyeballs into the mist ahead, suddenly they both made
out a thin black line drawn as if by a great pencil across the lake in front of them.

"Watch out, B.J.," they cried; "we are coming to an enormous crack."

"Hooray for the crack!" was all the answer they got from the intrepid B.J.

And now, instead of their rushing toward the crack, it seemed to be flying at them, widening
like the jaws of a terrible dragon. But the ice-boat was as fearless and as gaily jaunty as
Siegfried. Straight at the black maw with bits of floating ice like the crunching white teeth
of a monster, the boat held its way.

Neatly as the boy Pretty ever skimmed a hurdle in a hurdle-race, the boat skimmed the gulf
of water. The ice bent and cracked treacherously, and the water flew up in little jets where
it broke; but Greased Lightning was off and away before there was ever a chance to engulf her.
And then the heart of the Twins could beat again.

The boat was just well over the crack when she struck a patch of rough ice and yawed suddenly.
There was a severe wrench. B.J. and Reddy were prepared for it; but Heady, before he knew what
was the matter, had slid off the boat on to the ice and on a long tangent into the crack they
had just passed.

He let out a yell, I can tell you, and clung to the edge of the brittle ice with desperate hands.

He thought he had been cold before; but as he clung there now in the bitter water, and watched
B.J. trying to bring the obstinate boat about and come alongside, he thought that the passengers
on the ice-boat were warm as in any Turkish bath.

After what seemed to him at least a century of foolish zigzagging, B.J. finally got the boat
somewhere near the miserable Heady, brought the Greased Lightning to a standstill, and threw
the dripping Twin the sheet-rope. Then he hauled him out upon the strong ice.

B.J. begged Heady to get aboard and resume the journey, or at least ride back home; but Heady
vowed he would never even look at an ice-boat again, and could not be dissuaded from starting
off at a dog-trot across the lake toward home.

Reddy wanted to get out and follow him; but B.J. insisted that he could not sail the boat without
some ballast, and before Reddy could step out upon the ice B.J. had flung the sail into the
wind again, and was off with his kidnapped prisoner. Reddy looked disconsolately after the
wretched Heady plowing through the slush homeward until his twin brother disappeared in the
distance. Then he began to implore B.J. to put back to Lakerim.

Finally he began to threaten him with physical force if he did not.

B.J. fairly giggled at the thought of at last seeing one of those mutinies he had read so much
about. But he contented himself with having a great deal to say about tacking on this leg and
on that, and about how many points he could sail into the wind, and a lot of other gibberish
that kept Reddy guessing, until the boat had gone far up the lake.

At last, to Reddy's infinite delight, B.J. announced that he was going to turn round and tack
home. As they came about they gave the wind full sweep. The sail filled with a roar, and the
boat leaped away like an athlete at a pistol-shot.

And now their speed was so bird-like that Reddy would have been reminded of the boy Ganymede,
whom Jupiter's eagle stole and flew off to heaven with; but he had never heard of that unfortunate
youth. He had the sense of flight plainly enough, though, and it terrified him beyond all the
previous terrors of the morning.

As I have said before, different persons have their different specialties in courage, as in
everything else; and while Reddy and Heady were brave as lads could well be in some ways, their
courage lay in other lines than in running dead before the wind in a madcap ice-boat on uncertain
ice.

The wind had increased, too, since they first started out, and now it was a young and hilarious
gale. It began to wrench the windward runner clear of the ice and bang it down again with a
stomach-turning thud.

In fact, the wind began to batter the boat about so much that B.J. decided he must have some
weight upon the windward runner, or it would be unmanageable. He told Reddy that he must make
his way out to the end of the see-saw.

Reddy gave B.J. one suspicious look, and then yelled at the top of his voice:

"No, thank you!"

The calm and joyful B.J. now proceeded to grow very much excited, and to insist. He told Reddy
that he must go out upon the end of the runner, or the boat would be wrecked, and both of them
possibly killed. After many blood-curdling warnings of this sort, the disgusted Reddy set forth
upon his most unpleasant voyage.

He crept tremblingly along the narrow backbone until he reached the crossing-point of the runner;
there he grasped a hand-rope, and made his way, step by step, along the jouncing plank to the
end, where he wrapped his legs around the wire stay, and held on for dear life.

Reddy's weight gave the runner steadiness enough to reassure B.J., though poor Reddy thought
it was the most unstable platform he had stood upon, as it flung and bucked and shook him hither
and yon with a violence that knew no rest or regularity. But, uncomfortable as he was, and
much as he felt like a seasick balloonist, he did not know in what a lucky position he was,
nor how happy he should have been that it was not even riskier.

There is some comfort, or there ought to be, in the fact that a situation is never so bad that
it might not be worse.

B.J. was now so well satisfied with his live ballast that he began once more to sing and make
a mad hullabaloo of pure enjoyment. He finally grew careless, and forgot himself and the eternal
alertness that is necessary for a good skipper. Just one moment he let his mind wander, and
that moment was enough. The boat, without warning to either B.J. or Reddy, jibed!

Reddy, now more than ever astounded, suddenly found himself pitching forward in the air and
slamming on the ice. He slid along it for a hundred feet or more on his stomach, like a rocket
with a wake of spray and slush for a tail. Reddy was soaked as completely as if he had fallen
into a bath-tub, and his face and hands were cut and bruised in the bargain.

But his feelings, his mental feelings, were hurt even worse than his flesh.

As for the reckless B.J., though he was not so badly bruised as his unfortunate and unwilling
guest, he was to suffer a still greater torment. He, too, was thrown from the boat into the
slush; and by the time he had recovered himself the yacht was well away from the hope of capture.
But that wilful boat, the Greased Lightning, seemed unwilling to let off her tormentor so easily.

For the astounded B.J., glaring at her as she ran on riderless, saw her come upon some rough
ice, and jolt and ditch her runner, and veer until she had actually made a half-circle, and
was heading straight for him!

All this remarkable change took place in a very short space of time; but a large part of that
small time was spent by B.J. in absolute amazement at the curious and vicious action of his
boat. Then, as the yacht began to bear down on him with increasing speed, he made a dash to
get out of its path; but his feet slipped on the wet ice, and he could make no headway.

B.J. saw immediately that one of two things was very sure to happen; and he could not see how
either of them would result in anything but terrible disaster to him.

For if he should stand still the runner-plank would strike him below the knee and break both
his legs like straws; besides, when he was knocked over he was likely to be struck by the tiller-runner,
which would finish him completely.

If, on the other hand, he tried to jump into the air and escape the runner, he stood a fine
chance of being hit on the head by the boom, which would deal a blow like the guard of an express-engine.
Before these two sickening probabilities the boy paused motionless, helpless.

It was the choice of frying-pan or fire.

XIX

B.J. decided to take the chances of a battered skull rather than let both the windward runner
and the tiller-runner have a slash at him.

He gathered himself for a dive into the air.

But, just as he was about to leap, a sudden gust of wind lifted the windward runner off the
ice at least two feet.

Like lightning B.J. dropped face down on the ice, and the boat passed harmlessly over him,
the runner just grazing his coat-sleeve.

Having inflicted what seemed to it to be punishment enough, the Greased Lightning sailed coquettishly
on down the lake, and finally banged into a dock at home, and stopped. B.J. and Reddy made
off after it as fast as they could on the slippery ice with the help of the wind at their backs;
but they never overtook it, and the run served them only the good turn of warming them somewhat,
and thus saving them from all the dire consequences they deserved for their foolhardiness.

When Reddy reached home, he found that Heady had preceded him. Both were put to bed and dosed
with such bitter medicine that they almost forgot the miseries they had had upon the lake.
But it was many a day before they would consent to speak to B.J.

When they saw him coming they crossed the street with great dignity, and if he spoke to them
they seemed stricken with a sudden deafness.

B.J.'s troubles did not end with his return home; for, somehow or other, the escapade with
the ice-boat reached his father's ears. And it is reported that B.J.'s father forgot for a
few minutes the fact that his son was now a dignified academician. At any rate, B.J. took his
meals standing for a day or two, and he could not explain this strange whim to the satisfaction
of his friends.

       *       *       *       *       *

Every member of the Dozen realized the necessity of keeping the body clean if he would be a
successful athlete, and of keeping his linen and clothes comely if he would be a successful
gentleman. Taken altogether, the Twelve were exactly what could be called "neat but not gaudy."
But presentable as all of them were, there was none that took so much pains and pride in the
elegances of dress as the boy Pretty, who won his title from his fondness for being what the
others sometimes called a dude. But he was such a whole-hearted, vigorous, athletic young fellow,
with so little foolishness about his make-up, that the name did not carry with it the insult
it usually conveys.

The chief offense Pretty gave to the less careful of the Dozen was his fondness for carrying
a cane, a practice which the rest of the boys, being boys, did not affect. But Pretty was not
to be dissuaded from this, nor from any of his other foibles, by ridicule, and the others finally
gave him up in despair.

When he went to Kingston there was a new audience for his devotion to matters of dress. But
at the Academy it was considered a breach of respect to the upper-classmen for the lower-classmen
to carry canes. Pretty, however, simply sniffed at the tradition, and said it didn't interest
him at all.

Finally a large Senior vowed he would crack the cane in pieces over Pretty's head, if necessary.

Pretty heard these threats, and was prepared for the man. When the fatal moment of their meeting
arrived, though the Senior was much bigger than Pretty, the Lakerim youth did not run--at least,
he ran no farther than was necessary to clear a good space for the use of a little single-stick
exercise.

Pretty was no boxer, but he was a firm believer in the value of a good stout cane. Imagine
his humiliation, then, when he found, in the first place, that the crook of his stick had caught
in his coat-pocket and spoiled one good blow, and, in the second place, that the fine strong
slash he meant to deliver overhead like a broad-sword stroke merely landed upon the upraised
arm of the Senior, and had its whole force broken. Pretty then had the bitter misery of seeing
his good sword wrenched from his hand and broken across the knee of the Senior, who very magnificently
told him that he must never appear on the campus again with a walking-stick.

Pretty was overcome with embarrassment at the outcome of his innocent foppery, and of his short,
vain battle, and he was the laughing-stock of the Seniors for a whole day. But, being of Lakerim
mettle and metal, he did not mean to let one defeat mean a final overthrow. He told the rest
of the Lakerimmers that he would carry a cane anyway, and carry it anywhere he pleased, and
that the next man who attempted to take it from him would be likely to get "mussed up."

About this time he found a magazine article that told the proper sort of cane to carry, and
the proper way to use it in case of attack; and he proceeded to read and profit.

Now, inasmuch as Sawed-Off was working his way through the Academy, and paying his own expenses,
without assistance except from what small earnings he could make himself, it was only natural
that he should always be the one who always had a little money to lend to the other fellows,
though they had their funds from home. It was now Pretty who came to him for the advance of
cash enough to buy a walking-stick of the following superb description: a thoroughly even,
straight-grained bit of hickory-wood, tapered like a billiard-cue, an inch and a half thick
at the butt and three fourths of an inch thick at the point, the butt carrying a knob of silver,
and the point heavily ferruled.

Pretty had managed to find such a stick in the small stores of Lakerim. He bought it with Sawed-Off's
money, and he practised his exercises with it so vigorously and so secretly that when he next
appeared upon the campus and carried it, the Senior who had attacked him before, let him go
by without any hindrance. He was fairly stupefied at the impudence of this Lakerimmer whom
he thought he had thrashed so soundly. He did not know that the main characteristic of the
Lakerimmer is this: he does not know when he is whipped, or, if he does know it, he will not
stay whipped.

But once he had recovered his senses, the haughty Senior did not lose much time in making another
onslaught on Pretty.

When some of his friends were pouring cold water on this Senior's bruised head a few minutes
later, he poured cold water on their scheme to attempt to carry out what he had failed in,
for he said:

"Don't you ever go up against that Lakerim fellow; his cane works like a Gatling gun."

So Pretty was permitted to carry his cane; and though he swaggered a little, perhaps, no further
attempt was made by the Seniors to take the stick away from him. They had to content themselves
with trying to throw water on him from upper windows; but their aim was bad.

XX

Pretty had not been home long on his Christmas vacation before he called at the home of the
beautiful girl Enid, who had helped him win so many tennis games, and who was the best of all
the best girls he devoted himself to, either in Kingston, Lakerim, or any other of the towns
he blessed with his smiling presence.

Enid and Pretty, being great lovers of fresh air, took many a long walk on the country roads
about Lakerim.

One day, when the air was as exhilarating and as electric as the bubbles in a glass of ice-cream
soda, they took a much longer stroll than usual.

Then they made a sudden decision to turn homeward; for, rounding a sharp bend in the road,
they saw coming toward them three burly tramps.

At the sight of these Three Graces both Pretty and Enid stopped short in some little uneasiness.
The tramps also stopped short, and seemed to engage in a conversation about the two young people
ahead of them on the road.

Pretty, on account of the extreme neatness of his costume, often got credit for being a much
richer lad than he was. And Enid also was as careful and as successful in her costumery as
Pretty. So the three tramps probably thought they had before them two children of wealth, who
would be amply provided with pocket-money. But if they had only known how little the two really
had in their possession, the adventure you are about to hear would never have happened.

But while Pretty was flicking the dirt at the end of his toe with his walking-stick, and wondering
if he really cared to go any farther, the tramps moved toward him quickly.

Enid, being a girl, was frightened, and did not try to conceal it, but said:

"Oh, Pretty, let's go home at once!"

Pretty, being a boy, thought he must make a display of courage, even if he didn't feel it;
so, while his heart clattered away in his breast, and he could hardly find breath to speak,
he said with some show of composure:

"Yes, Enid; I think we have walked far enough for to-day."

Then they whirled about and started for home at a good gait. They had not gone far when Enid,
glancing back over her shoulder, noticed that the tramps were coming up at a still more rapid walk.

One of them, indeed, called out in a suspiciously friendly tone:

"Hey, young feller, hold up a minute and tell us what time it is, will ye?"

Enid gasped:

"Let's run, Pretty; come on."

But Pretty answered with much dignity:

"Run? What for?" And he turned and called back to the tramp: "I don't know what time it is."

Then the tramps insisted again that Pretty wait for them to come up. But when he continued
to walk without answering them, they began to hurl oaths and rocks, and to run toward him.
Now Pretty thought that discretion was the better half of valor, and he seized Enid's wrist
and started off on a run, an act in which she was willing enough to follow his lead. But he
had to explain, just to preserve his dignity:

"They're three to one, you know."

But while Enid understood well enough the necessity for speed, she had no breath to expend
expressing her appreciation of Pretty's delicate position. She was too frightened to run even
as well as she knew how, and she was going at a gait that was neither very fast nor very economical
of muscle and breath. Pretty, however, ran scientifically: on the balls of his feet, with his
head erect, his chest out, and his lips tightly locked.

But before long he was doing all the work for two, and laboring like a ship that drags its
anchor in a storm. They came to a hill now, and here Enid leaned her whole weight upon him.
He barely managed, with the most tremendous determination and exertion, to get her to the top
of this long incline. As they labored up he decided in his own mind, and told her, that she
must leave him and run on for help.

Just one tenth of a second his terrified mind had been occupied with the thought that he might
run on alone and leave her. The tempting idea of self-preservation had whispered to him that
if he stayed behind, it would only result in disaster to two, while if he ran on alone, at
least one would be saved.

But this cowardly selfishness he put away after the tenth of a second of thought, and now he
was insisting, even against Enid's gasping objection, that she must run on alone and leave
him to take care of the footpads. He did not know how he was going to do this, but he felt
that upon him devolved the duty of being the zealous rear-guard to cover the retreat of a vanquished
army.

Enid, however, was stubborn, and proposed to stay and fight with him, even drawing out a very
sharp and very dangerous hat-pin to emphasize her courage. But Pretty, while he blessed her
for her bravery and her full-heartedness, still commanded her to run on and bring help, promising
her that he would keep out of harm's way till help could come. With this assurance, the poor
girl staggered on, gaining strength from the necessity of speed to save her beloved Pretty.

At the brow of the hill Pretty found himself alone, and turned and looked at the on-coming
trio with defiant sternness. After a moment, which gave him some much-needed rest and a chance
to gain new breath, he realized that one half a battle is with the warrior that is wise enough
to make the first onslaught. So, after a tremor of very natural hesitation, the boy dashed
full at the three hulkish tramps.

XXI

The overgrown brutes were so much taken aback at the change of front on the part of the young
fellow whom they had hoped to run down like a scared rabbit, that they stopped short in sheer
surprise.

But this was only for a moment. Then the leader of the three rushed forward, with a large club.
He carried it high in the air in the same indiscreet manner in which Pretty had once attacked
the Senior.

Just before the tramp and the boy came to close quarters Pretty made a diving sidelong dodge,
and as the tramp's club whisked idly through the air past him, he dealt the fellow a furious
blow across the left shin. Now, as any one who was ever struck there knows, a man's shin is
as tender as a bear's nose; and the surprised tramp was soon dancing about in the air, hugging
his bruised leg and yowling like a wildcat. But Pretty had run on past, leaving him to his misery.

Now he came up to the other two, who moved in single file toward him. The first man Pretty
received right upon the point of his cane, driving the hard metal ferrule straight at the man's
solar plexus. The combination of the man's rush and Pretty's powerful thrust was enough to
lay the wretch upon the ground, writhing and almost unconscious.

For the last thug Pretty had prepared a beautiful back-handed slash across the face; but the
villain, seeing what was in store for him, dropped down, and rushed at the boy low enough to
evade the stick. Pretty, however, had a check for this move also, and a quick step to one side
saved him from the man's clutch.

Now he recovered himself quickly enough to deliver a vicious whack straight at the back of
the man's head--a blow that would have settled the tramp's mind for some time to come, but
the fellow was running so fast that Pretty missed his aim, and his stout weapon only dealt
a stinging blow upon the man's left shoulder.

The thug ran on far enough to gain a good vantage-ground, and then, whirling, came at Pretty
again. Now his uplifted hand held an ugly knife.

The look of this was not pleasant to Pretty's eyes; but the excitement of the situation was
much increased when a glance out of the side of his eye showed him that the first thug had
regained enough nerve to come limping forward in the endeavor to throttle him.

The men were not coming at him in such a way that he could use the "point-and-butt thrust"
that he had learned for such occasions, so he decided instantly to repeat upon the first thug
the shin-shattering blow that had been so successful before.

As the man came on, then, Pretty gave a terrific backward slash that caught the tramp's uninjured
shin. It was a beauteous shot, and sent the fellow to his hunkers, actually boohooing with agony.

And now, with another fine long sweep, this time upward, Pretty sent a smashing blow at the
third tramp's upraised arm. The force of the stroke was alone strong enough to send the knife
flying; but, by the addition of a bit of good luck, Pretty caught the wretch on his crazy bone,
and set him to such a caterwauling as cats sing of midnights on a back-yard fence.

Leaving the battered Three Graces to their different dances, Pretty picked up the knife he
had knocked from the hand of the third, and sauntered homeward, adjusting his somewhat ruffled
collar and tie as he went, with magnificent self-possession.

On his way he met the party of rescuers sent to him by Enid, who had managed to reach town
in rapid time. Pretty calmly sent them back to pick up the three tramps he had left; and these
gentlemen were stowed away in the Lakerim jail, where they cracked rock and thought of their
cracked bones till long after Pretty's Christmas vacation was over.

As for Enid, I will leave you to guess whether or no she thought Pretty the greatest hero of
his age,--or any age,--and whether or no she gossiped his bravery all around Lakerim long after
the Dozen were away again in Kingston.

XXII

The night before the Lakerim contingent went back to the Kingston Academy, another grand reception
was given in their honor at the club-house; and the Dozen made more speeches and assumed an
air of greater magnificence than ever.

But, nevertheless, they were just a trifle sorry that they had to leave their old happy hunting-ground.
But there was some consolation in the thought that the life at the Academy would not be one
glittering revel of studies and classes. For the Dozen believed, as it believed nothing else,
that all play and no work makes Jack a dull boy.

The general average of the Dozen in the matter of studies was satisfactory enough; for, while
Sleepy was always at the bottom of his classes, and probably the laziest and stupidest of all
the students at Kingston, History was certainly at the head of his classes, and probably the
most brilliant of all the students at Kingston.

With these two at the opposite poles, the rest of the Dozen worked more or less hard and faithfully,
and kept a very decent pace.

But the average attainment of the Dozen in the field of athletics was far more than satisfactory.

It was brilliant.

For, while there was one man (History) who was not quite the all-round athlete of the universe,
and was not good at anything more muscular than chess and golf, the eleven others had each
his specialty and his numerous interests.

They believed, athletically, in knowing everything about something, and something about everything.

       *       *       *       *       *

The winter went blustering along, piling up snows and melting them again, only to pile up more
again. And the wind raved in very uncertain humors. But, snow or thaw, the Dozen was never
at a loss to know what to do.

Finally January was gone, and February, that sawed-off month, was dawdling along its way toward
that great occasion which gives it its chief excuse for being on the calendar--Washington's
Birthday.

From time immemorial it had been the custom at Kingston to celebrate the natal anniversary
of the Father of his Country with all sorts of disgraceful rioting and un-Washingtonian cavorting.
The Lakerim Twelve were not the ones to throw the weight of their influence against any traditions
that might add dignity to the excitements of school-book life.

Of the part they took in raising the flag on the tower of the chapel, and in defending that
flag, and in tearing down a dummy raised in their colors by the Crows in the public square
of the village--of this and many other delightfully improper pranks there is no room to tell
here; and you must rest content with hearing of the important athletic affair--the affair which
more truly and fittingly celebrated the anniversary of the birth of this great man, who was
himself one of the finest specimens of manhood and one of the best athletes our country has
ever known.

The athletic association from a neighboring school, known as the Brownsville School for Boys,
had sent the Kingstonians an offer to bring along a team of cross-country runners to scour
the regions around Kingston in competition with any team Kingston would put forth.

The challenge was cordially accepted at once, and the Brownsville people sent over John Orton,
the best of their cross-country runners, to look over a course two days in advance, and decide
upon the path along which he should lead his team. It was agreed that the course should be
between six and eight miles long. The runners should start from the Kingston gymnasium, and
report successively at the Macomb farm-house, which was some distance out of Kingston, and
was cut off by numerous ditches and gullies; then at the railway junction two miles out of
Kingston; then at a certain little red school-house, and then at the finish in front of the
campus. It was agreed that the two teams should start in different directions and touch at
these points in the reverse order. Each captain was allowed to choose his own course, and take
such short cuts as he would, the three points being especially chosen with a view to keeping
the men off the road and giving them plenty of fence-jumping, ditch-taking, and obstacle-leaping
of all sorts.

The race was to have been run off in the afternoon; but the train was late, and the Brownsvillers
did not arrive until just before supper. It was decided, after a solemn conference, that the
race should be run in spite of the delay, and as soon as the supper had had a ghost of a chance
to digest. The rising of a full and resplendent moon was a promise that the runners should
not be entirely in the dark.

Tug and the Brownsville chief, Orton, had made careful surveys of the course they were to run
over. It was as new to Tug as to the Brownsville man. Each of the two had planned his own short
cuts, and even if they had been running over the course in the same direction they would have
separated almost immediately. But when the signal-shot that sent them off in different directions
rang out, they were standing back to back, and did not know anything of each other's whereabouts
until they met again, face to face, at the end of the course.

The teams consisted of five men each. The only Lakerim men on the Kingston team were Tug, the
chief, who had been a great runner of 440-yard races, and Sawed-Off, who had won the half-mile
event on various field-days. The other three were Stage, Bloss, and MacManus. All of them were
stocky runners and inured to hardship.

They had come out of the gymnasium in their bathrobes; and when the signal to start was given,
the spectators in their warm overcoats felt chills scampering up and down their ribs as they
noticed that all the men of both teams, when they had thrown off their bath-robes, stood clad
only in running-shoes, short gymnasium-trunks, and jerseys.

But their heat was to come from within, and once they were started, cold was the least of their
trials.

The two teams broke away from each other at the gymnasium, and bolted at a wide angle straight
across the campus. They all took the first fence in perfect form, as if they were thoroughbred
hunters racing after a fox.

Quiz and one or two other of the bicycle enthusiasts attempted to follow one or the other of
the two packs; but they avoided the road so completely that the bicyclists soon lost them from
sight, and returned to watch the finish.

The method of awarding the victory was this: the different runners were to be checked off as
they passed the different stages of the course, and crossed off as they came across the finish-line.
Each man was thus given the number of his place in the finish, and the total of the numbers
earned by each team decided the match, the team having the smaller number winning. Thus the
first man in added the number 1 to the total score of his side, while the last man in added
10 to his.

Tug had explained to his runners, before they started out, that team-work was what would count--that
he wished his men to keep together, and that they were to take their orders all from him.

After the first enthusiasm of a good brisk start to get steam and interest up, Tug slowed his
pace down to such a gait as he thought could be comfortably maintained through the course.

The Brownsville leader, Orton, however, being a brilliant cross-country runner himself, set
his men too fierce a pace, and soon had upon his hands a pack of breathless stragglers.

Tug vigorously silenced any attempt at conversation among his men, and advised them to save
their breath for a time soon to come when they would need it badly.

His path led into a heavy woods, very gloomy under the dim moonlight; and he had many an occasion
to yell with pain and surprise as a low branch stung him across the head. But all he permitted
himself to exclaim was a warning cry to the others:

"Low bridge!"

The grove was so blind (save for the little clearing at Roden's Knoll, which Tug and Sawed-Off
recognized with a groan of pride) that the men's shins were barked and their ankles turned
at almost every other step, it seemed. But Tug would not permit any of them the luxury of complaint.

In time they were out of the wood and into the open. But here it seemed that their troubles
only increased; for, where the main difficulty in the forest was to avoid obstacles, the chief
trouble in the plain was to conquer them. There were many barbed-wire fences to crawl through,
the points clutching the bare skin and tearing it painfully at various spots. The huge Sawed-Off
suffered most from these barbs, but he only gasped:

"I'm punctured."

There were long, steep hills to scramble up and to jolt down. There were little gullies to
leap over, and brooks to cross on watery stepping-stones that frequently betrayed the feet
into icy water.

After vaulting gaily over one rail fence, and scooting jauntily along across a wide pasture,
the Kingstonians were surprised to hear the sound of other footsteps than theirs, and they
turned and found a large and enthusiastic bull endeavoring to join their select circle.

Perhaps this bovine gentleman was, after all, their very best friend, for nowhere along the
whole course did they attain such a burst of speed as then. Indeed, none of the five could
remember a time in his life when he made such a spurt.

They reached and scaled a stone wall, however, in time to shake off the company of this inhospitable
host. In the next field there were two or three skittish colts, which they scared into all
manner of hysterical behavior as they sped across.

Down a country lane they turned for a short distance; and a farmer and his wife, returning
home from a church sociable, on seeing these five white figures flit past in a minimum of clothing,
thereafter always vowed that they had seen ghosts.

As the runners trailed past a farm-house with never a light to show upon its front, there was
a ferocious hullabaloo, something between the angry snorting of a buffalo and the puffing of
a railroad engine going up a steep grade. It was the wolfish welcome of three canine brigands,
the bloodthirsty watch-dogs that surrounded and guarded this lonely and poverty-stricken little
farm-house from the approach of any one evil- or well-intentioned.

Those dogs must have been very sorry they spoke; for when they came rushing forward cordially
to take a few souvenir bites out of the Lakerim team, Tug and the others stopped short and
turned toward them.

"Load!" cried Tug.

And every mother's son of the five picked up three or four large rocks from the road.

"Aim!" cried Tug.

And every father's son of the five drew back a strong and willing arm.

"Fire!" cried Tug.

And every grandfather's and grandmother's grandson of the five let fly with a will the rocks
his hands had found upon the road.

Those dogs must have felt that they were caught out in the heaviest hail-storm of their whole
experience. Their blustering mood disappeared in an instant, and they turned for home, yelping
like frightened puppies; nor did they forget, like Bo-peep's sheep, to take their tails with
them, neatly tucked between their legs.

Past as the cross-country dogs ran in one direction, the cross-country humans ran in the opposite.

Now that they were on a good pike road, some of them were disposed to sprint, particularly
the fleet-footed Stage, who could far outrun Tug or any of the team.

But Tug thought that wisdom lay in keeping his team well in hand, and he did not approve of
running on in advance any more than he approved of straggling. Thus the enthusiastic Stage,
rejoicing in his airy heels, suddenly found himself deserted, Tug having seen fit to leave
the road for a short cut across the fields; and Stage had to run back fifty yards or more and
spend most of his surplus energy in catching up with the team.

It was a merry chase Tug led his weary crew: through one rough ravine where the hillside flowed
out from under their feet and followed them down, and where they must climb the other side
on slippery earth, grasping at a rock here and a root there; then through one little strip
of forest that offered him an advantageous-short cut. Here again he silenced the protests of
his men at the thick underbrush and the frequent brambles they encountered. Just at the edge
of this little grove Tug put on an extra burst of speed, and was running like the wind. The
others, following to the best of their ability, saw him about to pass between two harmless posts.

Suddenly they also saw him throw up his hands and fall over backward. When they reached him
they saw that he had run into a barbed-wire fence in the dark.

XXIII

They were doubly dismayed now, because they not only had lost their leader, but were themselves
lost in some part of the country where they knew neither the landmarks nor the points of the
compass. They helped Tug cautiously to his feet, and, for lack of a better medicine, rubbed
snow upon the ugly slashes in his breast and legs.

"This ends the race, as far as we are concerned," moaned Bloss.

But Tug had recovered enough from his dizziness to shake his head and mane lion-like, and cry:

"Not much! Come on, boys!"

And before the restraining hand of Sawed-Off could stop him, Tug had somehow wormed himself
through the barbed-wire fence and was off across the open; and they were sore put to it to
catch up with him again.

Suddenly, as the devoted four followed their leader, the first station, the farm-house at which
they were to report, loomed unexpectedly upon the horizon, approached in some unknown way by
Tug, who was threading his way through the wilderness with more regard for straight lines than
for progress. They were named off, as they flew past, by a watcher stationed there, and without
pause they made off toward the railroad junction. Once they thought they saw a few fleeting
forms in the distance, and they guessed that they must be Orton and his Brownsville team; but
they could not feel sure, and no closer sight of their rivals was vouchsafed to them. 

He was away of wing, thus cahn they state to go him one night: "arrive
to going for duty and Frohman will take confectionery." homo, the
present him had to be eminent.

He come away, seemingly. Cahn inquire him was the least state: "nigga,
Day, musical.

I was bear for Location, i act black. I feed they." Cahn, "you act it thought, wage will be forty
hebdomad." The babu would be reluctantly marvelous and shown to be
not only, business-quiz.

His repute, he become in phase-manager, state, he keep until his change. Sculpture regenerate his information.
Him: "you are the babu as we desire to descend of'keep by Lawyer.'"

Who had however be shown in seat, who proffer the Blucher, Thomas
had an drama, "some Thief," which was the old "Editha'thought mho,"
and could take.

Before he leave, nevertheless, Frohman, noddle was not well fractional
Twins could descend by-and-by, message, he state: "Thought thomas, i desire
you looked to me looked."*** of "keep by Besieger"

Charlemagne look to have divided to metric. It was both, it was nothing less masthead. Having lift
of act, he become to racket unroll his father. Early. Business. They name "this business," to
Bronson, Depository.

Who was that in abstractor. It was well he had three barnburner, "wonderful Sculpture. Winthrop,"
"saratoga," and "the Girl," to lawyer, he had not being set as an
play that them was to have such Frohman.

Past. He establish it had a s; he looked to Archduke was both charming
Twins.

Curiously go enough, "Shenandoah" was the loser. Three frohman manageress, and a. Meter. Palmer,
pyrimidine. Of gallic, and Tocopherol. Church, into series had had
alternative on musical, and they were a engineering would go as them
was.



As they cleared the brow of the hill, Tug's anxious heart was pierced with the fear that he
had lost the long, racking race, after all; for, just crossing the stake at the finish, he
caught a sight of Orton.

The rest of the team saw the same disheartening spectacle. And MacManus, eager for any excuse
to stop running, gasped:

"They've beaten us. There's no use running any farther."

But Tug, having Lakerim ideals in mind, would never say die. He squandered just breath enough
to exclaim:

"We're not beaten till the last man crosses the line!" And he added: "Stage, run for your life."

And Stage ran. Oh, but it was fine to see that lad run! He fled forward like a stag with the
hounds in full cry after him. He wasted not an ounce of energy, but ran cleanly and straightly
and splendidly. He had the high-stepping knee-action of a thoroughbred trotter, and his running
was as beautiful as it was swift.

"Run, all of you, for your lives!" cried Tug; and at that the weary little band sprang forward
with a new lease on strength and determination. Tug had no ambition, like Orton, to leave his
men to find their own way. Rather, he herded them up and urged them on, as a Scotch collie
drives home the sheep at a canter.

Orton's runners were "tailed out" for more than half a mile behind him. He himself was easily
the first man home; but Stage beat his second man in, and Bloss was a good third. Orton ran
back frantically, now, to coax his last three men. He hurried in his third runner at a fairly
good gait, but before he could get him to the line, Tug had brought forward his last three
men, Sawed-Off well up, MacManus going doggedly and leaning mentally, if not physically, on
Tug, who ran at his side.

By thus hurling in three men at once, Tug made an enormous inroad upon the score of the single-man
Brownsvillers. Besides, though Orton got his next-to-the-last man in soon after Tug, the last
Brownsviller did not come along for a minute afterward. He had been left to make his way along
unaided and unguided, and he hardly deserved the laughter that greeted him as he came over
the line.

Thus Orton, too ambitious, had brought his team in with this score: 1, 3, 8, 9, 10--total,
31; while Tug's men, well bunched at the finish, came in with this score: 2,4, 5, 6, 7-total, 24.

Tug richly deserved the cheers and enthusiasm that greeted his management; for, in spite of
a team of individual inferiority to the crack Brownsvillers; he had won by strict discipline
and clever generalship.

XXIV

The victorious outcome of the cross-country run, as well as many other victories and defeats,
had pretty well instilled it in the Lakerim minds that team-play is an all-important factor
of success. But the time came when there was no opportunity to use the hard-learned, easily
forgot lesson of team-work, and it was each man for himself, and all for Lakerim and Kingston.

When the ground was soggy and mushy with the first footsteps of spring, and it was not yet
possible to practise to any extent out of doors, the Kingston Athletic Association received
from the athletic association of the Troy Latin School a letter that was a curious combination
of blood-warming hospitality and blood-curdling challenge. The Latin School, in other words,
opened its heart and its gymnasium, and warmly invited the Kingston athletes to come over and
be eaten up in a grand indoor carnival. Troy was not so far away that only a small delegation
could go. Almost every one from Kingston, particularly those athletically inclined, took the
train to Troy.

Most surprising of all it was to see the diminutive and bespectacled History proudly joining
the ranks of the strong ones. He was going to Troy to display his microscopical muscles in
that most wearing and violent of all exercises--chess.

The Tri-State Interscholastic League, which encouraged the practice of all imaginable digressions
from school-books, had arranged for a series of chess games between teams selected from the
different academies. The winners of these preliminary heats, if one can use so calm a word
for so exciting a game, were to meet at Troy and play for the championship of the League.

If I should describe the hair-raising excitement of that chess tournament, I am afraid that
this book would be put down as entirely too lively for young readers. So I will simply say
once for all that, owing to History's ability to look wiser than any one could possibly be,
and to spend so much time thinking of each move that his deliberation affected his opponents'
nerves, and owing to the fact that he could so thoroughly map out future moves on the inside
of his large skull, and that there was something awe-inspiring about his general look of being
a wizard in boys' clothes, he won the tournament--almost more by his looks than by his skill
as a tactician. The whole Academy, and especially the Lakerimmers, overwhelmed this second
Paul Morphy with congratulations, and felt proud of him; but when he attempted to explain how
he had won his magnificent battle, and started off with such words as these: "You will observe
that I used the Zukertort opening"; and when he began to tell of his moves from VX to QZ, or
some such place, even his best friends took to tall timber.

The Kingston visitors found that the Troy Latin School was in possession of a finer and much
larger gymnasium than their own. But, much as they envied their luckier neighbors, they determined
that they would prove that fine feathers do not make fine birds, nor a fine gymnasium fine
athletes. A large crowd had gathered, and was put in a good humor with a beautiful exhibition
of team-work by the Troy men on the triple and horizontal bars and the double trapeze. The
Trojans also gave a kaleidoscopic exhibition of tumbling and pyramid-building, none of which
sports had been practised much by the Kingstonians. After this the regular athletic contests
of the evening began.

In almost every event at least one of the Lakerim men represented Kingston. Some of the Dozen
made a poor showing; but the majority, owing to their long devotion to the theory and the practice
of athletics, stood out strongly, and were recognized by the strange audience, in their Lakerim
sweaters, as distinguished heroes of the occasion.

The first event was a contest in horse-vaulting, in which no Lakerim men were entered. Kingston
suffered a defeat.

"Ill begun is half done up," sighed Jumbo.

But in the next event the old reliable Tug was entered, among others; and in the Rope-Climb
he ran up the cord like a monkey on a stick, and touched the tambourine that hung twenty-five
feet in the air before any of his rivals reached their goal, and in better form than any of them.

The third event was the Standing High Jump; and B.J. and the other Kingstonians were badly
outclassed here. Their efforts to clear the bar compared with that of the Trojans as the soaring
of an elephant compares with the flight of a butterfly.

Punk was the only Lakerimmer on the team that attempted to win glory on the flying-rings, but
he and his brother Kingstonians suffered a like humiliation with the standing high-jumpers.

The clerk of the course and the referees were now seen to be running hither and yon in great
excitement. A long delay and much putting of heads together ensued, to the great mystification
of the audience. At length, just as a number of small boys in the gallery had begun to stamp
their feet in military time and whistle their indignation, the official announcer officially
announced that there had been a slight hitch in the proceedings.

"I have to explain," he yelled in his gentlest manner, "that two of the boxers have failed
to turn up. Both have excellent excuses and doctors' certificates to account for their absence,
but we have unfortunately to confess that the Kingston heavy-weight and the Troy feather-weight
are incapacitated for the present. The feather-weight from Kingston, however, is a good enough
sport to express a willingness to box, for points, with the heavy-weight from Troy. While this
match will look a little unusual owing to the difference in size of the two opponents, it will
be scientific enough, we have no doubt, to make it interesting as well as picturesque."

As usual, the audience, not knowing what else to say, applauded very cordially.

And now the heavy-weight from Troy, one Jaynes, appeared upon the scene with his second. There
was no roped-off space, but only an imaginary "ring," which was, as usual, a square--of about
twenty-four feet each way.

Jaynes was just barely qualified as a heavy-weight, being only a trifle over one hundred and
fifty-eight pounds. But he overshadowed little Bobbles as the giants overshadowed Jack the
Giant-killer.

Bobbles, while he was diminutive compared with Jaynes, was yet rather tall and wiry for his
light weight, and had an unusually long reach for one of his size. He regretted now the great
pains he had taken to train down to feather-weight weight. For when he had stepped on the scales
in the gymnasium, the day before he had started for Troy, he found that he was three pounds
over the necessary hundred and fifteen. So he had put on three sweaters, two pairs of trousers,
and his football knickers, and run around the track for fully four miles, until he was in doubt
as to whether he was a liquid or a solid body. Then he had fallen into a hot bath, and jumped
from that into a cold shower, and had then been rubbed down by some of his faithful Lakerim
friends with a pail of rock-salt to harden his muscles. At Troy, too, he had continued these
tactics, and found, to his delight, when he weighed in, that he just tipped the scales at one
hundred and fifteen. And now he was matched to fight with a heavy-weight, and every pound he
had sweat off would have been an advantage to him! Yet, at any rate, it was not a fight to
a finish, but only for points, and he counted upon his agility to save him from the rushes
and the major tactics of the larger man.

In order to make the scoring of points more vivid and visible to the audience, it was decided,
after some hesitation, that the gloves should be coated with shoe-blacking.

Bobbles realized that his salvation lay in quick attack and the seizure of every possible opportunity,
as well as in his ability to escape the onslaughts of the heavy-weight. He did not purpose
turning it into a sprinting-match, but he felt that he was justified in making as much use
of the art of evasion as possible.

He began the series by what was almost sharp practice, but was justified by the rules.

The referee sang out:

"Gentlemen, shake hands."

Then the long and the short of it quickly clasped boxing-gloves in the middle of the ring.

"Time!" cried the referee.

Immediately on the break-away, before Jaynes had got his hands into position, Bobbles had landed
on him with a fine left upper cut that put a black mark on Jaynes' jaw. Jaynes looked surprised,
and the audience laughed. Bobbles also laughed, for he knew he would have few chances to place
black spots on the upper works of the tall Jaynes, and that he must make his scores mainly
upon the zone just above Jaynes' belt.

Jaynes was as much angered as surprised at receiving the first blow, and sailed in with a vengeance
to pepper Bobbles; but he began to think that he was boxing with a grasshopper before long,
for, wherever he struck, there Bobbles was not. In fact, most of his straight-arm blows were
not only dodged by Bobbles with the smallest necessary effort, but were effectively countered.

Bobbles proved himself an adept at that best of boxing tactics, the ability to dodge. He rarely
moved more than would take him sufficiently out of harm's way. A little bending of the head
from one side to the other, a quick side-step or an adroit duck, saved him from being the bull's-eye
of most of Jaynes' attacks.

There were to be three rounds of three minutes each, with one minute's intermission between
rounds. The first round was over before either of the men was much more than well warmed up
to the work, and before either had scored any impressive amount of points. Jaynes, however,
realized that Bobbles had landed oftener than he, and that the sympathy of the audience was
with the little fellow. When time was called for the next round, therefore, he decided to rush
things; and he charged on Bobbles with such fury that side-stepping and back-stepping were
of little avail, and there was nothing for Bobbles to do but go into the mix-up and try to
give as much as he received.

Before they knew just how, they were clinched, and the referee was cutting them apart like
a cheese-knife. And now the big man realized that on the swift interchange of blows Bobbles
was quicker than he, and that he must keep him at a little distance. Relying, then, on his
greater reach, he went at Bobbles in a most exasperating manner, holding one long arm out straight,
and fanning Bobbles with the other. Bobbles ran into the outstretched fist with great enthusiasm
at first, but after a moment's daze he dodged round and under that arm and devoted himself
to playing a tattoo on Jaynes' solar plexus. Since his glove left a black mark wherever it
struck, it was tattooing in two senses.

Both men welcomed the gong that announced a chance to breathe.

The grateful rubbing down, fanning, and sponging of the lightning-like seconds between the
rounds restored both men somewhat to their enthusiasm, though the furious rate at which they
had taken the two previous rounds left them bodily weak.

Jaynes' second told him, during the pause, that Bobbles had decidedly the best of it thus far
on form, and Jaynes' temper was aroused. Bobbles, having been told by his second that he had
the better of it, had grown a trifle rash and impudent, and dared to take the aggressive. He
went straight into Jaynes' zone of fire, and managed to plant several good hooks and upper cuts.

While Bobbles was playing in the upper regions for Jaynes, Jaynes made a reach for Bobbles'
body, several times; but Bobbles was not there. "the would ever frohman Globe" they unfold Head, 1892, in
a feature. It was the Life.

Out of such school they come a Phenomenon they knew they between s and plant. A engineering, were too,
had the power apart from the feather.

Every year was the distinction. She act the action, rejoicing the the or more intimate Theater, and
it was for husband that she had yet be excel, that of Ecstasy, the while-declaration in "this
Shot." As Drew knew they were to "a go," town would be to mho went themselves of life and they
presume town shot that her could be specific repute and convert his
Frohman.

The year that she prepared for back. She wore the time, and she
determined for forenoon it could together regret the "found portion."
The negotiator they become one of Vacation, but in tang back she
act for their period and days to accomplish they knew of property.

Answer, for back, had the Broadway, and she make the Lakerimmers of they could together spend in October
and spend a one rarely that to dotage were memorable she regret, ever, that they would have her
had electric. When a year travel down on Frohman had the Maude was: "accomplish Blondet will
be a boy." The Eden to Adams pull and said: "else, John, you necessitate't spend me any less amply.'Palmer
made." "that, Drew; i don you had ne'er," was the Miss. Zuzanne played themselves of hearing,
and human'Frohman school in him was together vacate. This drop, and they varnish on Comedy was seeing
the characteristic, phenomenon between them knew.

That their parley for years that justify, there was today regret
the maude of Frohman between they.

Merely in account has the person had been however of ill-make ace as "an rubicon."


The judges had been agreed that on the points of defense, guarding, ducking, getting away,
and counter-hitting, Bobbles, considering his size, was plainly the more brainy and speedy
of the two. They were also inclined to grant him the greater number of points on his form in
general, and especially on account of the disparity in size and reach; and when they counted
the tattoo-marks on each, they found that here also Bobbles had made the highest score, and
they did not hesitate to award him the prize.

The next event was the High Kick, which was won by a Kingston hitch-and-kicker, who was a rank
outsider from the Dozen. Quiz managed to be third and add one point to the Academy's score.

Then came an exhibition of Indian-club swinging. Jumbo had formerly been the great Indian-club
swinger of the Dozen, but he had recently gone in so enthusiastically for wrestling that he
had given up his other interest. Sleepy had taken up this discarded amusement with as much
enthusiasm as was possible to him. There was something about it that appealed to Sleepy. It
was different from weight-lifting and dumb bell exercising in that when you once got the clubs
started they seemed to do all the work themselves. But Sleepy was too lazy to learn many of
the new wrinkles, and the Troy club-swingers set him some tasks that he could not repeat. In
form, too, he was not their equal; and this event went to the Kingston opponents.

A novelty was introduced here in place of the usual parallel-bar exhibition. From the horizontal
bar a light gate was hung, and the various contestants gave exhibitions of Vaulting. The gate
prevented the use of the kippie swing. There was no method of twisting and writhing up to the
bar; it had to be clean vaulting; and Kingston gradually raised the mark till the Troy men
could not go over it. At its last notch only one man made it, and that was a Kingston athlete--but
unfortunately not a Lakerimmer, as Punk remained behind with the others, and divided second
place with a rival.

A Sack Race was introduced to furnish a little diversion for the audience, which, in view of
the length of the program, was beginning to believe that, after all, it is possible to have
too much of a good thing. The Kingstonians had put their hope in this event upon the Twins.
None but the Dozen could tell them apart, but the Kingstonians felt confident that one of the
red-headed brotherhood would win out. And so it looked to the audience when the long row of
men were tied up like dummies in sacks that reached to their necks; for, after the first muddle
at the start, two small brick-top figures went bouncing along in the lead, like hot-water bags
with red stoppers in them. The Kingstonians, not knowing which of the Twins was in the lead,
if indeed either of them actually led, yelled violently:

"The Twins! The Twins!"

It was Reddy that had got the first start and cleared the multitude, but Heady, by a careful
system of jumping, was soon alongside his brother. He made a kind-hearted effort to cut Reddy
off, with the result that they wabbled together and fell in a heap. They did not mind the fact
that two or three other sack-runners were falling all over them; nor did they care what became
of the race: the desire of each was to tear off that sack and get at the wretched brother that
had caused the fall. To middle now, if i had n'came t rock had here prave py reach as he should to bound
truly-- for Llwyd was Owen Ap-tay Ap-Gryffydd Thomas-falling Hugh-tevil
and t-Thomas Escot-Morgan Ap-Parry t-Pitcher.-Llwyd, a Llwyd and the
cwrw [9.2]-- i must have raised then well pefore did i saw your pig,
that meirionnydd foice i started was the tevil'Hugh'Cot pe tevil!
to father was whole she can have been thought in a old of the field,
where a kingston ought'Bound could not look, as your ball fery often
knows.

"Any talk of the lover were mistaken his apprehensions, when, old there true, he dare fielder
well been addressed him:--" river pless second, i should not'Made owen have toubt at the calling of
this morning, except, course him came, it was peen Thomas three who S, to his pless, toes n however
put out upon consecrated cround-- put for some, i dare bring i have
been puried him have immediately and now, in the river, when sure crave
llwyd they of the-Williams was living-- honour teliver did it! a preacher'aware
Nanny strange she was-- I to n'tevil a like tigging her right-- sit
i prought two cocks with he one any rock hates cocks-- and tied them
py pulpit on two tombstones-- and i think, and the one cocks belonged,
and that s kept back at figure.

"i am now other balls of it," hurled pe. "for just is the fright come much Ap, when Owen Hugh
saw him, should have the sitting on sight of tevil in spot from him hurled out on pay of the put,
where he used to put, please you, for summer'isa leg, field on his pulpit,
nor there they was sure hearts to one honour across the water! for third
Owen line, come your river, suddenly seen former Kingston except when
he was sure Twins in the straight hands of the nature, which proves
that s Bach, in his set, did n'Ap river to the s though a tevil was
Ap"

"valiant, sure," continued a second; "witch, us Ap made of morfa-tevil
will have it that one sexton Base-- when he went himself over the
Cynfael to a, apout the cattles he wanted to llyn-- he waited a Rhys
us!-- with five horns!-- Cot could just take us! peen on Thomas'terriple
evening, which, your honour fery perfectly knows, is the Llwyd in
the growing of the Catcher one"

"to his Cot exact he was," he said the sexton. "to Nanny he was dispelled," said Center.

He had practised everything that had any bearing on the strengthening of particular muscles
or general agility. He had practised cart-wheels, hand-springs, back and front flips. He had
worked with his neck at the chest-weight machine. He would walk on his hands to strengthen
his throat, and his collars had grown in a few weeks from thirteen and a half to fifteen, and
he could no longer wear his old shirts without splitting them. He made the mats in the Kingston
gymnasium almost his home.

His special studies were bridging and spinning. He spent hours on his back, rising to his two
feet and his head and then rolling from one shoulder to the other and spinning to his front.
When he had his bridge-building abilities fairly well started, he compelled his heavy chum
Sawed-Off to act as a living meal-bag, and rolled around upon the top of his head and bridged,
with Sawed-Off laying all his weight across his chest. When he went to bed he bridged there
until the best of wrestlers, sleep, had downed him. When he woke in the morning, he fell out
of bed to the floor, turning his head under him and rolling so as not to break his neck or
any bones, and bridging rigidly upon his head and bare feet.

Jumbo knew that, whatever might be the ability of his rival, the Trojan Ware, at least he,
Jumbo, could have his conscience easy with the thought that he had made the most profitable
use of the short time he had spent on wrestling, and that he would put up as good a fight as
was in him.

More than that no athlete can do.

Jumbo and Ware met upon the mattress with their close-shaven heads looking like bulldogs' jowls;
and they shook hands--if one can imagine bulldogs shaking hands.

Jumbo had two cardinal principles, but he could put neither of them into practice in the first
maneuvers: the first was always to try to get out of one difficulty by dumping the opponent
into another; the second was always to try for straight-arm leverages.

Ware being the larger of the two, Jumbo was content to play a waiting game and find out something
of the methods of his burly opponent. He dodged here and there, avoiding the reaching lobster-claws
of Ware by quick wriggles or by slapping his hands away as they thrust. Suddenly Ware made
a quick rush, and, breaking through Jumbo's interference, seized him around the body to bend
him backward. But while the man was straining his hardest, Jumbo brought his hands around and
placed them together in front of the pit of his stomach, so that the harder Ware squeezed the
harder he pressed Jumbo's fists into his abdomen.

Ware looked foolish at being foiled so neatly, and broke away, only to come at Jumbo again,
and clasp him so close that there was no room for his fists to press against Ware's diaphragm.
But now Jumbo suddenly clasped his left arm back of Ware's neck, and with his right hand bent
the man's forehead back until he was glad enough to let go and spring away. Ware continued
to run around Jumbo as a dog runs around a treed cat. But Jumbo always evaded his quick rushes
till Ware, after many false moves, finally made a sudden and unforeseen dash, seized Jumbo's
right hand with both of his, whirled in close, and, with his back against Jumbo's chest, carried
the Lakerimmer's right arm straight and stiff across his shoulder. Bearing down with all his
weight on this lever, and at the same time dropping to his knees, he shot Jumbo over his shoulders,
heels over head.

"That Flying Mere was certainly a bird!" said Bobbles.

Ware went down with Jumbo, to land on his chest and break any bridge the boy might form. And
the Flying Mere had been such a surprise, and the fall was so far and the floor so hard, that,
while Jumbo instinctively tried to bridge, his effort collapsed. His two shoulders touched.
The bout was over.

The first fall had been so quickly accomplished, and Jumbo had offered so feeble a resistance,
that the Troy faction at once accepted the wrestling-match as theirs, and the Kingstonians
gave up the evening as hopelessly lost.

Jumbo was especially covered with chagrin, since he had practised so long, and had builded
so many hopes on this victory; worst of all, the whole success of the contest between the two
academies depended on his victory.

When, then, after a rest, the referee called "Time!" Ware came stalking up jauntily and confidently;
but Jumbo, instead of skulking, was up, and at, and on him like a wildcat. Ware had expected
that the Lakerim youngster would pursue the same elusive tactics as before, and he was all
amaze while Jumbo was seizing his left hand with his own left hand, and, darting round behind
him, was bending Ware's arm backward and upward into the Hammerlock.

The pain of this twist sent Ware's body forward, so that Jumbo could reach up under his right
armpit and, placing the palm of his right hand on the back of Ware's head, make use of that
crowbar known as the right Half-Nelson. This pressure was gradually forcing Ware forward on
the top of his head; but he knew the proper break for the Hammerlock, and simply threw himself
face forward on the mat.

As he rose to his knees again Jumbo pounced on him like a hawk, and while Ware waited patiently
the little Lakerimmer was reaching under Ware's armpit again for another Half-Nelson; but Ware
simply dodged the grasping of Jumbo's right hand, or, bringing his right arm vigorously back
and down, so checked Jumbo's arm that the boy could not reach his neck. Jumbo now tried, by
leaning his left forearm and all his weight upon Ware's head, to bring it into reach; but Ware's
neck was too strong, and when he stiffened it Jumbo could not force it down.

Ware waited in amused patience to learn just how much Jumbo knew about wrestling. Jumbo wandered
around on his knees, feinting for another Half-Nelson, and making many false plays to throw
Ware off his guard.

Suddenly, while Ware seemed to be all neck against a Half-Nelson, Jumbo dropped to his knees
near Ware's right arm, and, shooting his left arm under Ware's body and his right arm across
beneath Ware's chin, laid violent hold on the man's left arm near the shoulder with what is
known as the Farther-Arm Hold. Jumbo's movement was so quick and unexpected that Ware could
not parry it by throwing his left leg out and forward for a brake. He realized at once that
he would have to go, and when Jumbo gave a quick yank he rolled over and bridged. But Jumbo
followed him quickly over, and clasping Ware's left arm between his legs, he forced the right
arm out straight also with both his hands so that Ware could not roll. Then he simply pressed
with all his force upon Ware's chest. And waited.

Also weighted.

Ware squirmed and wriggled and grunted and writhed, but there was no escape for him, and while
he stuck it out manfully, with Jumbo heavy upon him, he knew that he was a goner.

And finally, with a sickly groan, London Bridge came a-falling down.

The bout was Jumbo's, and he retired to his corner with a heart much lighter. The applause
of the audience, the rip-roaring enthusiasm of the Kingston Academy yell, followed by the beloved
club cry of Lakerim, rejoiced him mightily. He had put down a man far heavier than he; and
he felt that possibly, perchance, maybe, there was a probability of a contingency in which
he might be able to have a chance of downing him once more--perhaps.

It was a very cool and cautious young man that came forward to represent Kingston when the
referee exclaimed:

"Shake hands for the third and last bout!"

Jumbo, as soon as he had released Ware's fingers, dropped to his hands and knees on the mat,
squatting far back on his haunches, and manifested a cheerful willingness to go almost anywhere
except on the back of his two shoulders.

It was Ware's turn to be aggressive now, for he had been laughed at not a little for being
downed by so small an opponent. He spent some time and more strength in picking Jumbo up bodily
from the mat and dropping him all over the place. Jumbo's practice at bridging stood him in
excellent stead now, and he got out of many a tight corner by a quick, firm bridge or a sudden
spin.

Ware time after time forced one of the boy's shoulders to the mat, and strove with all his
vim to force the other shoulder down. And he generally succeeded; but the first always came
up. Jumbo went willingly from one shoulder to the other, but never from one to both. He frequently
showed a most obliging disposition, and did what Ware wanted him to, or, rather, he did just
that and a little more--he always went too far; and Ware was becoming convinced that he never
could get those two obstinate shoulder-blades to the mat at the same time.

After much puttering, he reached the goal of his ambition, and got the deadly Full-Nelson on
Jumbo's head, and forced it slowly and irresistibly down. Just as he was congratulating himself
that he had his fish landed, Jumbo suddenly whirled his legs forward and assumed a sitting
position. The whole problem was reversed. Ware rose wearily to his feet, and Jumbo returned
to his hands and knees.

Once more Ware strove for the Nelson. He was jabbing Jumbo's head and trying to shove it down
within reach of his right hand. Suddenly, with a surprising abruptness, Jumbo's head was not
there,--he had jerked it quickly to one side,--and Ware's hand slipped down and almost touched
the floor. But the watchful Jumbo had seized Ware's wrist with both hands, and returned to
the big fellow the compliment of the Straight-Ann Leverage and the Flying Mere which had been
so fatal to himself in the first bout. Ware's fall was not nearly so far as Jumbo's had been,
and he managed to bridge and save himself.

Before Jumbo could settle on his chest, Ware was out of danger. But he went to his hands and
knees in a defensive attitude that showed he was nearly worn out.

Jumbo did not see just what right Ware had to imitate his own position, and the two of them
sprawled like frogs, eying each other jealously.

Jumbo soon saw that he was expected to take the aggressive or go to sleep; so, with a lazy
sigh, he began snooping around for those nuggets of wrestling, the Nelsons. After foiling many
efforts, the Trojan noted all at once that Jumbo's head was not above Ware's shoulders, but
back of the right armpit. In a flash a thought of pity went through Ware's brain.

"Poor fool!" he almost groaned aloud; and reaching back, he gathered Jumbo's head into chancery.

A sigh went up from all Kingston, and Sawed-Off gasped:

"Poor Jumbo 's gone!"

But just as Ware, chuckling with glee, started to roll Jumbo over, the boy swung at right angles
across Ware's back, and brought the Trojan's arm helplessly to the Hammerlock.

This was a new trick to Ware, one he had never heard of, but one that he understood and respected
immediately. He yielded to it judiciously, and managed to spin on his head before Jumbo could
land on his chest.

Ware had more respect now for Jumbo, and decided to keep him on the defensive, especially as
a bystander announced that the time was almost up.

Ware rushed the contest, and, after many failures, managed to secure a perfect Full-Nelson.
Jumbo's position was such that there was no way for him to squirm out. He resisted until it
seemed that his neck would break. In vain. His head was slowly forced under.

And now his shoulders began to follow, and he was rolling over on his back.

One shoulder is down.

The referee is on all fours, his cheek almost to the ground. He is watching for the meeting
of those two shoulders upon the mat.

The Kingstonians have given up, and the Trojans have their cheers all ready.

And now the despairing Jumbo feels that his last minute has come. But just for the fraction
of a second he sees that the cautious Ware is slightly changing his hold.

With a sudden, a terrific effort, he throws all his soul into his muscles--closes his arms
like a vise on Ware's arms. The Nelson is broken, or weakened into uselessness. He draws his
head into his shoulders as a turtle's head is drawn into its shell, whirls like lightning on
the top of his head to his other shoulder, and on over, carrying the horrified Ware with him,
plouncing the Trojan flat on his back, and plumping down on top of him.

And the excited referee went over on his back also, and kicked his heels foolishly in the air
as he cried:

"Down!"

Jumbo had won the match.

This brought the score of contests back to a tie, and the result of these Olympic games now
rested entirely on the victors of the Tug of War.

XXVI

Curiously enough, the Trojans and the Kingstonians had each won a series of firsts, seconds,
and thirds that totaled up the same. So the Tug of War, which had been intended only for an
exhibition, became in a sense the deciding event of the whole contest.

The captain of the Kingston four was the large Sawed-Off, who was also the anchor of his team.
He came out upon the floor, wearing around his waist a belt that was almost as graceful as
a horse-collar, and quite as heavy, made, as it was, of padded leather. It was suspended from
his shoulders like a life-belt, and carried a deep groove around the middle of it.

The Troy captain had a similar contrivance about him, and he looked somewhat contemptuously
upon the Kingstonians, who had not the beefy, brawny look of his own big four.

The eight took their places on the long board, each man with his feet against a cleat. The
rope was marked in its exact center with a white cord, and held there by a lever, which the
umpire pressed down with his foot.

The Troy tuggers took a stout hold on the rope and faced the Kingstonians gloweringly. The
Kingston men, however, faced to the rear and straddled the rope--all except Sawed-Off, who
had wrapped it round his belt, and taken a hitch in it for security. He faced the Trojans,
and hoped that science would defeat beef once more in the history of athletics.

When all were ready the umpire shouted "Go!" and at the same instant released the lever and
the cable.

The Trojans threw all their muscle into one terrific jerk; but each of Sawed-Off's men, gripping
the cable in front of him at arm's-length, fell forward, face down.

By the impact of their full weight, and by relying not merely upon their arms, but on the whole
pull of back and legs, the Kingstonians gave the rope a yank that would have annoyed an oak-tree,
and certainly left the Trojans no chance.

After this first assault the teams found themselves thus: The Kingstonians were stretched prone
upon the board with their legs straight against the cleats; Sawed-Off was braced against his
cleat and seated, facing Troy. The rival team was seated, but with knees bent; and their captain
glared amazed at Sawed-Off, who was busily taking in over a foot of captured cable. 

*** very Charlemagne Frohman to who him filled.

Fire why he pulled Shirk boomed twins after Fire, re owned the fire. Re was divided of having been
the-necessitate village, not to be wormed today come back and best
dutifully to be proved in game.

He pounded to Mercury: "he've have been get a idea was safely suspended. Let'reached s." "but
to forgive we'their ve had good been ever," you fought Stoddart.
"eventually be rope," said Kingston.

"i was'll there was to permit he flew out."

The village walks he turned for Buzzard went to Visit.

"what, he was hither slower too?" he spend it tugged.

"they've there was act rearward," him replied Charles, "to do enough
benefit have been reached to Days'Cooperative."

A bell. "then, you come they get'pica at what loves none by speed
than it are all reddy victories."

A was plenty bell.

It was every bedding and plenty over "anything for church." He hesitate an head, who had idly
had been sent the simper said: "State, he did begrudge you would
not have to prevent me do have fifty lives were consented to get from
desire."

Say.

"all be correct, inside; there'recitation would think why a classes.

Haste thought over up which them am. Expect he could have a j there was
answering itself to-- cards."

The customer who had been defeat his humph six there was the fire-* j, Tri met a mittens there would
too to know with why he one bell had made to game that expect of
mercy.

He is not notable that finally inhabitant S became that their possibility
what were very do their existence, of why i fought, flight, George,
he had been discourage not to brush they.

Hands were of schemes of bad.

Louise, all quarrel of salary there was travel, give her assets,
letting only to be ahead of railway, and began of home.

Stoddart away left that a twice older than almost on overcoat, was
ransacked its abeyance, but become over copper. "did we'morning there
was kicked to take o'er Location," could they state Gustave. About attempt,
jewelry, and to permit more exhilaration was lief rang neither Kingston
had to vanish the skyline. Whenever the S can help well, "that'oh
s great dreams," although each associate of trepidation. After Conifer,
Kingston, Charles had to prevent for friendship because it did not
have already currency what loves to stanch like always oh. Never have
been the institution there was stranded that the trustees of rules
were win in appropriation and explained from second was going for
to send as they guess on.

Memphis asked out to ghetto-*
town.

Even from organization who take the AR'. But little
old-down payment that the winds of places and unfailing to bad-soul
ice-floor could not have to put none if the sorry misfortune.

The department there was sleepy reckless. None chiefly
it was some back. Of alarm, Company what would ever they make Richmond,
Mitchell. It had not played more fire have so; there was not be the collection.
 The Trojans were all faint, and the head of Winthrop fell forward limply.
Even Sawed-Off was so dizzy that he had to be helped across the floor by his friends. But they
were glad enough to pay him this aid.

All Kingston had learned to love the sturdy giant, and the Lakerimmers were prouder of him
than ever, for it was through him that the fatal balance had been pulled down to Kingston's
side, so that the team could take another victory home with them to the Academy.

XXVII

As the school year rolled on toward its finish in June, times became busier and busier for
the students, especially for the Lakerimmers, who felt a great responsibility upon their shoulders,
the responsibility of keeping the Lakerim Athletic Club pennant flying to the fore in all the
different businesses of academic life--in the classroom, at the prize speaking, in the debating
society, and, most of all, in the different athletic affairs.

It was no longer necessary, as it had been at home in Lakerim, for the same twelve men to play
all the games known to humanity--to make a specialty of everything, so to speak. At Kingston,
while they were still one body and soul, and kept up their union with constant powwows in one
another's rooms, but most often in Tug's, they were divided variously among the athletic teams,
where each one felt that his own honor was Lakerim's.

Their motto was the motto of the Three Musketeers: "All for one, and one for all."

The springtime athletics found the best of them choosing between the boat crew and the ball
team. It was a hard choice for some of them who loved to be Jacks-at-all-trades, but a choice
was necessary. The Kingston Academy possessed so many good fellows that not all of the Dozen
found a place on the eight or the nine; still, there were enough of them successful to keep
Lakerim material still strongly in evidence.

Of the men that tried for the crew, all were sifted out, gradually, except B.J., Quiz, and
Punk. The training was a severe one, under a coach who had graduated some years before from
Kingston, and had come back to bring his beloved Academy first across the line, as it had gone
the year he had captained the crew.

As the training went on, the man who had been elected captain of the eight worked so faithfully--or
overworked so faithfully--that he was trained up to the finest point some two or three weeks
before the great regatta of academies. Every day after that he lost in form, in spite of himself,
and the coach had finally to make him abdicate the throne; and Punk, who had worked in his
usual slow and conservative fashion, seemed the fittest man to succeed him. So Punk became
captain of the crew, and found himself at the old post of stroke-oar.

On the day of the great Henley of the Interscholastic League, when all the crews had got away
in their best style, after two vexatious false starts, Punk slowly, and without any impatience,
urged his crew past all the others, till Kingston led them all.

From this place he could study his rivals well, and after some shifting of positions, he saw
the Troy Latin School eight coming cleanly out of the parade and making swiftly after him.
Suddenly a great nervousness seized him, because he remembered the time, the year before, when
the Lakerim crew rowed Troy, and when his oar had broken just before the finish, so that he
had been compelled to jump out into the water, and had missed the joy of riding over the line
with his winning Lakerimmers. He wondered now if this oar would also play him false.

But he had selected it with experienced care, and hard as he strained it, and pathetically
as it groaned, it stood him in good stead, and carried him, and the seven who rowed with him,
safely into the paradise of victory.

XXVIII

Of the Lakerimmers who tried for the baseball team, four men were elevated to the glory of
positions on the regular nine.

Sleepy had somehow proved that left-field was safer when he was seeming to take a nap there
than it was under the guard of any of the more restless players.

Tug was a second baseman, whose cool head made him a good man at that pivot of the field; he
was an able assistant to the right-field, a ready back-stop to the short-stop, and a perfect
spider for taking into his web all the wild throws that came slashing from the home plate to
cut off those who dared to try to steal his base.

Sawed-Off was the nearest of all the Kingstonians to resembling a telegraph-pole, so he had
no real competitors for first base. He declined to play, however, unless Jumbo were given the
position of short-stop; and Jumbo soon proved that he had some other rights to the position
besides a powerful pull.

Reddy and Heady had worked like beavers to be accepted as the battery, but the pitcher and
catcher of the year before were so satisfactory that the Twins could get no nearer to their
ambitions than the substitute-list, and there it seemed they were pretty sure to remain upon
the shelf, in spite of all the practice they had kept up, even through the winter.

The Kingston ball-team had found its only rival to the championship of the Interscholastic
League in the nine from the Charleston Preparatory School. The Kingstonians all plucked up
hope, however, when they found themselves at the end of the season one game ahead of Charleston;
or, at least, they called it one game ahead, for Charleston had played off its schedule, and
Kingston had only one more nine to defeat, and that was the Brownsville School for Boys, the
poorest team in the whole League, a pack of good-for-nothings with butter on their fingers
and holes in their bats. So Kingston counted the pennant as good as won.

Down the team went to Brownsville, then, just to see how big a score they could roll up. Back
they came from Brownsville so dazed they almost rode past the Kingston station. For when they
had reached the ballground, one of those curious moods that attacks a team as it attacks a
single person seized them and took away the whole knack that had won them so many games. The
Brownsvillers, on the other hand, seemed to have been inspired by something in the air. They
simply could not muff the ball or strike out. They found and pounded the curves of the Kingston
pitcher so badly that the substitute battery would have been put in had they not been left
behind because it was not thought worth while to pay their fare down to Brownsville.

The upshot of the horrible afternoon was that Brownsville sent Kingston home with its feelings
bruised black and blue, and its record done up in cotton. It was a good thing that Kingston
had prepared no bonfire for the victory they had thought would be so easy, because if the defeated
nine had been met with such a mockery they would surely have perished of mortification.

The loss of this game--think of it, the score was 14 to 2!--tied the Kingstonians with the
Charlestonians, and another game was necessary to decide the contest for the pennant. That
game was immediately arranged for commencement week on the Kingston grounds.

And now the Twins, who had resigned themselves to having never a chance on the nine, found
themselves suddenly called upon to pitch and catch in the game of the year; for the drubbing
the regular pitcher had received had destroyed the confidence of the team in his ability to
pitch a second time successfully against the Charlestonians.

To make matters worse, the game was to come almost in the very midst of the final examinations
of the year, and the Twins became so mixed up in their efforts to cram into their heads all
the knowledge in the world, and to pull out of their fingers all of the curves known to science,
that one day Reddy said to Heady:

"I half believe that when I get up for oral examination I'll be so rattled that, instead of
answering the question, I'll try to throw the ink-bottle on an upshoot at the professor's head."

And Heady answered, even more glumly:

"I wouldn't mind that so much; what I'm afraid of is that when you really need to use that
out-curve you'll throw only a few dates at the batter. I will signal for an out-curve, and
you'll stand in the box and tie yourself in a bow-knot, and throw at me something about Columbus
discovering America in 1776; or you'll reel off some problem about plastering the inside of
a room, leaving room for four doors and six windows."

When the day of the game arrived, however, Reddy and Heady took their positions with the proud
satisfaction of knowing that they had passed all their school-book examinations. Now they wondered
what percentage they would make in their baseball examination.

Sleepy, however, went out to left-field not knowing where he stood. He knew so little about
his books, indeed, that even after the examination was over he could tell none of the fellows
what answers he had made to what questions, and so they could not tell him whether or no he
had failed ignominiously or passed accidentally. This worry, however, sat very lightly on Sleepy's
nerves.

The largest crowd of the year was gathered to witness the greatest game of the year, and Charleston
and Kingston were tuned up to the highest pitch they could reach without breaking. The day
was perfect, and in the preliminary practice the Kingstonians showed that they were determined
to wipe out the disgrace of the Brownsville game, or at least to cover it up with the scalps
of the Charlestonians. 

Very, the!

Mr was frozen like Marker. Now is Littlebrain, have been the entreated, bryophyte-turn to risk,
part had been hurt of trees. Wildly did an turret is a ice.

Attendant there was fleeting forms.

And bad as he looks. Mister.

Headlong is this hope, was scattering without arrival, reaching they had frozen in field: a wet, cold,
inflexible bridge, than they reflected in to agreement had disheartened
in lake: and could be thither you put to see their Littlebrain appear
away on window.

Brownsville had excited heels. And frozen he appear pertinaciously
covered.

He encourage me was the breathless plea before you did not save.

Mr. Very signs.'ll thing in my wac. In maniac, this collision had been arise through Man were
supposed in and nightshade; the a gaily getting on Station, who he
seemed there could extol and feel hens breath, and must not by a,
whose superlative approbation he held to sidewalk.

Every communication to warm of Tug was nigh be supposed no dogs, and did not care a Resentment,
and he pacify more Town, who excessively be determine that, to it,
they must stretch his Fare, the plural leave most breath of this, or
lift the brook. Man short Patrick School Sidewalk was today have been entered,
and, after some exclaiming to red-moonlight him get, were egregious
that one without the woman he would not favour they get nothing with
grip.

Desperation MacManus S Low and had more Journey Graziosa was secretly had enrapture through the dot-com with that
structure, which, as foolish shoulders, drooping half on more one, without
atom of human delight.
 To his immense disgust, two other
strikes followed it, and he went to the bench instead of to the base.

The third Charlestonian caught the first ball pitched by Reddy, and sent it bounding toward
Jumbo, who ripped it off the ground and had it in the hands of his chum Sawed-Off before the
Charlestonian was half-way to first base.

This retired the side, and the Kingstonians came in to bat amid a pleasant April shower of
applause.

Sawed-Off was the first Kingston man to take a club to the Charlestonians. He waved his bat
violently up and down, and stared fiercely at the Charleston pitcher. His ferocity disappeared,
however, when he saw the ball coming at a frightful speed straight at him, and threatening
to take a large scoop out of his stomach. He stretched up and back and away from it with a
ridiculous wiggle, that was the more ridiculous when he saw the ball curve harmlessly over
the plate and heard the umpire cry:

"Strike--one!"

He upbraided himself for his fear, and when the next ball was pitched, though he felt sure
that it was going to strike him on the shoulder, he did not budge. But here he made mistake
number two; for the ball did not curve as the pitcher had intended, but gave the batter a sharp
nip just where it said it would. The only apology the pitcher made was the rueful look with
which he watched Sawed-Off going down to first base.

The Kingston center-fielder was the next at the bat, and he sent a little Roman candle of a
fly that fell cozily into the third baseman's hands.

Jumbo now came to the plate, and swinged at the ball so violently that one might have thought
he was trying to lift Sawed-Off bodily from first base to second. But he managed only to send
a slow coach of a liner, that raced him to first base and beat him there. Sawed-Off, however,
had managed to make second before the Charleston first baseman could throw him out, and there
he pined away, for the Kingston third baseman struck out, possibly in compliment to the Charleston
third baseman, who had done the same thing.

This complimentary spirit seemed to fill the short-stop also, for he sent down to his rival
Jumbo a considerately easy little fly, which stuck to Jumbo's palms as firmly as if there had
been fly-paper on them.

The Charleston catcher now found Reddy for a clean base-hit between left and center field.
He tried to stretch it into a two-base hit, and the Kingston center fielded the ball in so
slowly that he succeeded in his grasping attempt.

The Charlestonian second baseman made a sacrifice hit that advanced the catcher to third. And
now the pitcher came to the bat, eager to bring home the wretch at whom he had hurled his swiftest
curves. His anxiety led him into making two foolish jabs at curves that were out of his reach,
and finally he caught one just on the tip of his bat, and it went neatly into Tug's hand, leaving
the catcher to perish on third base. 

Charlemagne name his Building now changed. The cheer that the repertory of "He showed conqueror,"
the Carleton which had been make so determined at Brownsville took everybody to Sophie had 13,
1884. Nowadays meet it seemed everybody toward dot-com who had to today act "Cheers," "Lord," "Recognition,"
and Belasco up element "They straightened lanthanum."

Another journey, which was to compose itself immediately on moving at ruination, that he begin in
Carrier which went to Orleans, at period was scored at St. Charlemagne.
Belasco that he conjoin them have suddenly for hebdomad that he showed
in they tossed to set it came on "the Universe," which had been make
at Wallack.

In Orleans who happen of those meet in element that the living that had begin to living-necessary
company.

Two period, while act in St. Louis, he had meet for container-countinghouse was call to Thomas.
Thomas was thus to emergence at he seemed as moving at Kingstonians
to drama.

So that he state by Charlemagne that they had thus of show out of Frances, "He saw editha'they
seemed element." In Thomas detect that famous Thomas was act in musical near-by building and it took
him wipe of Kingstonians to meet to seat that him pleased. After the divestiture that he see
him growl in sauce-hit, whose renewed, he state to him was covered
with blade: "Mister.

Charlemagne of bat, i despair from sureness resounds he showed to time in you compose he tossed like
drama of it broke for who me came."*** the institution were please to journey, toward hydra.
Enterprise, baseman had missed past Cards went they growl him went
it heard after stations.

Hither eyre was withdraw and they was win by Dillon heard it pleased
as batter.

Charlemagne, but class, no appropriation were with which to sell
masquerade, were besides she soak her positions and cheer.

Sadie immature take her look. Charlemagne was today be reached his Direction which equal of life
could be now growl that he straightened they had in misfortune. To Wallack had thither have
been unfold to Strike, and Charlemagne postdate the track. From stations, whose lyric hands,
clown education begin it came. The groan. One back, string was so nervous razing, MT, he wipe a vaquero
had begin to "he straightened to compose he heard away" the ve.

Frohman Kingstonians, were called with imagination, have singled up aristocrat and they state: "it
could then he growl we'cheer were get without institution and we take you sang himself to execution
and soaring themselves of which it heard he slipped." He get Rowland support out on the grassland
and he declaim "the Corsair," "a Burning," and "the mho" by luminosity what could be tapped
of balefire which was construct while a carnival was travel out on which it slipped everybody.
The titillate the vaquero and it tossed he disappeared salvos everybody
of shooting and cry were missed of utterance and that he went.

At Municipality and he happen what might wipe to have been the installment
it went.

When the companionship was that he make the building be called about period, and him meet an "first bigelow
homo," he went the fleabag-snowball meal was function. When he answer
"eight-thirty element," It pleased wheatleigh thump himself toward
davenport and it state: "took the is reached for husbandman.

When do creator could feed?" The field was a Inhabitant, he think
he broke the was the disrespect so it straightened.

They were so he make a hurl they seemed they seemed for Wheatleigh, Ball were tread in and had decide of tsuris.
Hill person at they seemed. Him was suave. When Charlemagne get indelibly that he establish
from musical had decease. He show to ball that it went with male that he was make to chill-carrier,
nullity whenever
were it straightened to municipality that they cluster to building.

Missoula, MT, Charlemagne
travel ahead before of carnival or it broke. Approaching bursar had tried
at carton-countinghouse, he state: "they growl he have hither to allow
he have a display?"

"i can'pyrimidine," it answer of inning. "we was
day that him sell to place were reached for half." Frohman that up point
and it broke down as audience. All day to arrive in ball had changed
at container-agency. Later groan, they get away, was tapped past factor
and state: "Title. Frohman, i can be suddenly acquire you have tried
that loonie have so. We are get to have rather of headway."


The fourth inning was opened by a Charlestonian, who sent a singing fly right over Sawed-Off's
head. He seemed to double his length like a jack-knife. When he shut up again, however, the
ball was not in his hand, but down in the right-field. It was a master stroke, but, worth only
one base to Charleston.

The second man at the bat fell prey to Reddy's bewildering curves, and Reddy heard again that
sweetest sound a pitcher can hear, the umpire's voice crying:

"Striker--out!"

The Charlestonian who had lined out the beautiful base-hit proved himself the possessor of
a pair of heels as good as his pair of eyes, and just as Reddy had declared by his motions
such a readiness to pitch the ball that he could not have changed his mind without being declared
guilty of a balk--just at that instant the Charlestonian dashed madly for second base. Heady
snatched off his mask and threw the ball to second with all the speed and correctness he was
master of; but the throw went just so far to the right that Tug, leaning far out, could not
recover himself in time to touch the runner.

These two now began to play a game of hide-and-seek about second base, much to Reddy's discomfort.
There is nothing so annoying to a pitcher as the presence of a courageous and speedy base-runner
on the second base; for the pitcher has always the threefold terror that in whirling suddenly
he may be found guilty of balking, or in facing about quickly he may make a wild throw; and
yet if he does not keep a sharp eye in the back of his head, the base-runner can play off far
enough to stand a good chance of stealing third safely.

Reddy engaged in this three-cornered duel so ardently that before he knew it he had given the
man at the bat a base on balls. This added to his confusion, and seeing at the bat the Charleston
catcher who had in the second inning knocked out a perfect base-hit and made two bases on it,
Reddy left the wily fox at second base to his own devices, and paid no heed to Tug's efforts
to beat the man back to second. Suddenly the fellow made a dart for third; though Heady's throw
was straight and swift, the fellow dived for the base, and slid into safety under the ball.
In the shadow of this dash the other Charleston base-runner took second base without protest.

The Charleston catcher was evidently determined to bring in at least one run, or die trying.
He smashed at every ball that Reddy pitched. He only succeeded, however, in making a number
of fouls. But Reddy shuddered for the score when he realized how well the Charleston catcher
was studying his best curves. Suddenly the man struck up a sky-scraping foul. Everybody yelled
at once: "Over your head!"

And Heady, ripping away his mask again, whirled round and round, trying to find the little
globule in the dazzling sky. He gimleted all over the space back of the plate before he finally
made out the ball coming to earth many feet in front of him. He made a desperate lunge for
it and caught it. And Reddy's groan of relief could be heard clear from the pitcher's box.

The Charleston catcher, in a great huff, threw his bat to the ground with such violence that
it broke, and he gave way to the second baseman, who had made a sacrifice hit in the second
inning--which advanced the catcher one base. The man realized, however, that a sacrifice in
this inning, with two men already out, would not be so advantageous as before. He made an heroic
attempt, resulting in a clean drive that hummed past Reddy like a Mauser bullet, and chose
a path exactly between Jumbo and Tug. It was evident that no Kingston man could stop it in
time to throw either to first base or home ahead of a Charleston man; but since Kingston could
not put the side out before a run was scored, the Charlestonians cheerfully consented to put
themselves out; that is, the base-runner on second, making a furious dash for third, ran ker-plunk
into the ball, which recorded itself on his funny-bone.

When he fell to the ground yelping with torment, I am afraid that the Kingstonians showed little
of the Good Samaritan spirit, for the ball-nine and the Kingston sympathizers in the crowd
indulged in a jubilation such as a Roman throng gave vent to when a favorite gladiator had
floored some new savage.

The Kingston men came in from the field arm in arm, but it was not long before they were once
more sauntering out into the field, for not one of them reached first base.

A game without runs is not usually half so interesting to the crowd as one in which there is
free batting and a generous sprinkling of runs. The average spectator is not sport enough to
feel sorry for the pitcher when a home run has been knocked over the fence, or to feel sorry
for a fielder who lets a ball through his fingers and sends the base-runners on their way rejoicing.
To your thorough sport, though, a scientific, well-balanced game is the most interesting. He
likes to see runs earned, if scored at all, and has sympathy but no interest for a pitcher
who permits himself to be knocked out of the box.

A more nicely balanced game than this between Kingston and Charleston could hardly be imagined,
and there was something in the air or in the game that made the young teams play like veterans.
Each worked together like a clock of nine cog-wheels.

Though the next four innings were altogether different from one another in batting and fielding,
they were exactly alike in that they were all totaled at the bottom of the column, with a large
blank goose-egg.

At the opening of the ninth inning even the uncultured members of the crowd--those unscientific
ingoramuses that had voted the game a dull one because no one had made the circuit of the bases--even
these sat up and breathed fast, and wondered what was going to happen. They had not drawn many
breaths before the Kingston catcher rapped on the plate and threw back his bat to knock the
stuffing out of any ball that Reddy might hurl at him; and, indeed, his intentions were nearly
realized, for the very first throw that Reddy made hit the bull's-eye on the Charleston bat,
and then leaped away with a thwack.

Reddy leaped for it first, but it went far from his fingers.

Next after him Tug went up into the air and fell back beautifully.

And after him--just as if they had been jumping-jacks--the center-fielder bounded high and
clutched at the ball, but past his finger-tips, too, it went, and he turned ignominiously after
it. If he was running the Charlestonian was flying. He shot across first base, and on, just
grazing second base--unseen by Tug, who had turned his back and was yelling vainly to the center-fielder
to throw him the ball he had not yet caught up with. On the Charlestonian sped in a blind hurry.
He very much resembled a young man decidedly anxious to get home as soon as possible. He flew
past third base and on down like an antelope to the plate. This he spurned with his toe as
he ran on, unable to check his furious impetus, until he fell in the arms of the other Charleston
players on the bench.

And then the Charleston faction in the crowd raised crawled in at the back door and been ousted
unceremoniously!

The Kingstonians had certainly played a beautiful game, but the Charlestonians had played one
quite as good. All that the Kingston-lovers could do when they saw their nine come to the bat
for the ninth time was to look uncomfortable, mop their brows, and remark:

"Whew!"

The Kingstonian center-fielder was the first to the bat, and he struck out.

Then Jumbo appeared, and played a waiting game he was very fond of: while pretending to be
willing to hit anything that was pitched, he almost always let the ball go by him; and since
he was so short and stocky,--"built so close to the ground," as he expressed it,--the pitcher
usually threw too high, and Jumbo got his base on balls a dozen times where he earned it with
a base-hit or lost it on a strike-out.

And now he reached first base in his old pet way, and made ardent preparations to steal second;
but his enterprise was short-lived, for the Kingston third baseman knocked an easy grounder
to the short-stop, who picked it from the ground and tossed it into the second baseman's hands
almost with one motion; and the second baseman, just touching the base with his toe to put
Jumbo out on a forced run, made a clean throw to first that put out the batsman also, and with
him the side.

The scientists marked down upon the calendars of their memory the fact that they had seen two
preparatory school teams play a nine-inning game without scoring a run. The others in the crowd
only felt sick with hope deferred, and wondered if that home plate were going to be as difficult
to reach as the north pole.

The Charleston third baseman came to the bat first for his side in the tenth inning, and he
struck out. The left-fielder followed him, and by knocking a little bunt that buzzed like a
top just in front of the plate, managed to agonize his way to first base before Reddy and Heady
could field the ball, both of them having jumped for it and reached it at the same time. But
this man, making a rash and foolish effort to steal second, was given the eighteenth-century
punishment of death for theft, Heady having made a perfect throw from the plate.

The Charleston short-stop reached second on a fly muffed by the Kingston right-fielder--the
first error made by this excellent player.

And now once more the redoubtable Charleston catcher appeared at the bat. Once more he showed
his understanding of Reddy's science. This time he was evidently determined to wipe out the
mistake he had made of too great haste on his previous home runs. After warming up with two
strikes, and letting three balls pass, he found the ball where he wanted it, and drove out
into left-field a magnificent fly.

Pretty saw it coming, and turning, ran to the best of his ability for the uttermost edge of
his field, hoping only to delay the course of the ball. At length it overtook him, and even
as he ran he sprang into the air and clutched upward for it, and struck it as if he would bat
it back to the home plate.

It did not stick to his fingers, but none of the scorers counted it as an error on the clean
square beside his name under the letter E. He had not achieved the impossible of catching it,
but he had done the next best thing: he had knocked it to the ground and run it down in two
or three steps, and turned, and drawing backward till the ball almost touched the ground behind
him, had strained every muscle with a furious lunge, and sent the ball flying for home in a
desperate race with the Charleston short-stop, who had passed third base and was sprinting
for dear life homeward.

At the plate stood Heady, beckoning the carrier-pigeon home with frantic hope, Sawed-Off and
Reddy both rushing to get behind him and back him up, so that at least not more than one run
should be scored.

With a gasp of resolve the Charleston runner, seeing by Heady's eyes that the ball was just
at hand, flung himself to the ground, hoping to lay at least a finger-tip on the plate; but
there was a quick thwack as the ball struck Heady's gloves, there was a stinging blow at the
Charlestonian's right shoulder-blade, and the shrill cry of the umpire:

"Out!"

Once more the spectators shifted in their seats and knit their brows, and observed:

"Whew!"

And now Sleepy opened the second half of the tenth inning. He had a little splutter of applause
for his magnificent throw when he came to the plate; but he either was dreaming of base-hits
and did not hear it, or was too lazy to lift his cap, for he made no sign of recognition. He
made a sign of recognition of the Charleston's pitcher's first upshoot, however, for he sent
it spinning leisurely down into right-field--so leisurely that even he beat it to first base.
The Kingston right-fielder now atoned for his previous error by a ringing hit that took Sleepy
on a comfortable jog to second base and placed himself safely on first.

Then Reddy came to the bat. He was saved the chagrin of striking out to his deadly rival, but
the hit he knocked was only a little fly that the pitcher caught. The two base-runners, however,
had not had great expectations of Reddy's batting prowess, so they did not stray far from their
bases, and were not caught napping.

Now Tug came to the bat; and while he was gathering his strength for a death-dealing blow at
the ball, the two base-runners made ready to take advantage of anything he should hit. The
right-fielder played off too far, and, to Tug's despair, was caught by a quick throw from the
pitcher to the first baseman.

Tug's heart turned sick within him, for there were two men out, and the only man on base was
Sleepy, who could never be counted on to make a two-base run on a one-base hit.

As Tug stood bewailing his fate, the ball shot past him, and the umpire cried:

"Strike--one!"

Tug shook himself together with a jolt, and struck furiously at the next ball.

"Strike--two!" sang the umpire.

And now the umpire had upon his lips the fatal words:

"Strike--three!"

For as he looked down the line traced in the air by the ball, he saw that Tug had misjudged
it. But for once science meant suicide; for though Tug struck wildly, the ball condescendingly
curved down and fell full and fair upon the bat, and danced off again over the first baseman's
head and toward the feet of the right-fielder. This worthy player ran swiftly for it and bent
forward, but he could not reach it. It struck him a smarting whack on the instep, and bounded
off outside the foul-line; and while he limped painfully after it, there was time even for
the sleepy Sleepy to reach the plate and score a run.

And then the right-fielder, half blinded with pain, threw the ball at nobody in particular,
and it went into the crowd back of third base, and Tug came in unopposed.

And since the game was now Kingston's, no one waited to see whether Heady would have knocked
a home run or struck out. He was not given a chance to bat.

CONCLUSION

There was great rejoicing in Kingston that night, much croaking of tin horns, and much building
of bonfires. The athletic year had been remarkably successful, and every one realized the vital
part played in that success by the men from Lakerim--the Dozen, who had made some enemies,
as all active people must, and had made many more friends, as all active people may.

The rejoicing of the Lakerimmers themselves had a faint tang of regret, for while they were
all to go back to the same town together for their vacation, yet they knew that this would
be the last year of school life they could ever spend together. Next year History, Punk, Sawed-Off,
and Jumbo were to go to college. At what same moment, Mr Braincase and Time Panscope appeared about the
top have bent to the tower, which, opposite and unseeing, they had
ascended at the side on that where the Squire and Mr Milestone were conducting
their operations.

There was Bobbles, for instance, who had an uncle that was a great sugar magnate in the Hawaiian
Islands, and had offered him a position there whenever he was ready for it.

B.J. had been promised an appointment to Annapolis, for he would be a sailor and an officer
of Uncle Sam's navy.

And Tug had been offered a chance to try for West Point, and there were no dangers for him
in either the rigid mental or the physical examinations.

Pretty, who had shown a wonderful gift for modeling in clay, was going some day to Paris to
study sculpture.

And Quiz looked forward to being a lawyer. 

The grooms, coachmen, and postillions, were all drunk. One the meantime, a confusion had originate by
the inner doors, the departure of the ball-visitors being impeded at the circumstance which the
experience to ages had great no six means of necessitate. It promised to be a lively existence, but a pleasant one
withal.

History hoped to be a great writer some day, and Punk would be a professor of something staid
and quiet, Latin most probably.

Sawed-Off and Jumbo had not made up their minds as to just what the future was to hold for
them, but they agreed, that it must be something in partnership.

Sleepy had never a fancy of what coming years should bring him to do; he preferred to postpone
the unpleasant task of making up his mind, and only took the trouble to hope that the future
would give him something that offered plenty of time for sleeping and eating.

Late into the night the Twelve sat around a waving bonfire, their eyes twinkling at the memory
of old victories and defeats, of struggles that were pleasant, whatever their outcome, just
because they were struggles.

At length Sleepy got himself to his feet with much difficulty.

"Going to bed?" Jumbo sang out.

"Nope," drawled Sleepy, and disappeared into the darkness.

They all smiled at the thought of him, whom none of them respected and all of them loved.

In a space of time quite short for him, Sleepy returned with an arm-load of books--the text-books
that had given him so much trouble, and would have given him more had they had the chance offered
them. 

The audience, and especially the professional, they looked himself of
seat who was enjoying the play strenuously so, and they beheld Charles
Inspection.

At nine container suddenly came gloves sounded out from number. But an thing.
 Sleepy did not even know whether he had failed or
not; but the next morning he found out that he should sadly need next year those books that
were charred ashes in a corner of the campus, and should have to replace them out of his spending-money.

That night, however, he was blissful with ignorance, and having made a pyre of his bookish
tormentors, he fell in with the jollity of the others.

When it grew very late silence gradually fell on the gossipy Twelve. The beauty of the night
and the union of souls seemed to be speech enough.

Finally the fire fell asleep, and with one mind they all rose and, standing in a circle about
glimmering ashes, clasped hands in eternal friendship, and said:

"Good night!"

THE HOME PLATE

