BRIDGE DISASTERS IN AMERICA

  The Cause and the Remedy

  BY

  GEORGE L. VOSE

  AUTHOR OF "MANUAL FOR RAILROAD ENGINEERS AND ENGINEERING
  STUDENTS," "LIFE AND WORKS OF GEORGE W. WHISTLER,
  CIVIL ENGINEER," ETC.

  "ETERNAL VIGILANCE IS THE PRICE OF LIBERTY"

The substance of the following pages appeared originally in "The Railroad Gazette." It was
afterwards reproduced in pamphlet form, and has since been several times delivered as an address
to various bodies, the last occasion being before the Legislature of Massachusetts, 1887. It
is now re-published, with some new matter added, in the hope that the public attention may
be called to a subject which has so important a bearing upon the public safety.

  COPYRIGHT, 1887,
  BY LEE AND SHEPARD.

  All rights reserved.

BRIDGE DISASTERS IN AMERICA.

Nearly all of the disasters which occur from the breaking down of bridges are caused by defects
which would be easily detected by an efficient system of inspection. Not less than forty bridges
fall in the United States every year. No system of public inspection or control at present
existing has been able to detect in advance the defects in these structures, or to prevent
the disasters. After a defective bridge falls, it is in nearly every case easy to see why it
did so. It would be just about as easy, in most cases, to tell in advance that such a structure
would fall if it ever happened to be heavily loaded. Hundreds of bridges are to-day standing
in this country simply because they never happen to have received the load which is at any
time liable to come upon them.

A few years ago an iron highway bridge at Dixon, Ill., fell, while a crowd was upon it, and
killed sixty persons. The briefest inspection of that bridge by any competent engineer would
have been sure to condemn it. A few years later the Ashtabula bridge upon the Lake Shore Railroad
broke down under an express train, and killed over eighty passengers. The report of the committee
of the Ohio Legislature appointed to investigate that disaster concluded, first, that the bridge
went down under an ordinary load by reason of defects in its original construction; and, secondly,
that the defects in the original construction of the bridge could have been discovered at any
time after its erection by careful examination. Hardly had the public recovered from the shock
of this terrible disaster when the Tariffville calamity added its list of dead and wounded
to the long roll already charged to the ignorance and recklessness which characterize so much
of the management of the public works in this country.

There are many bridges now in use upon our railroads in no way better than those at Ashtabula
and Tariffville, and which await only the right combination of circumstances to tumble down.
There are, by the laws of chance, just so many persons who are going to be killed on those
bridges. There are hundreds of highway bridges now in daily use which are in no way safer than
the bridge at Dixon was, and which would certainly be condemned by five minutes of competent
and honest inspection. More than that, many of them have already been condemned as unfit for
public use, but yet are allowed to remain, and invite the disaster which is sure to come. Can
nothing be done to prevent this reckless and wicked waste of human life? Can we not have some
system of public control of public works which shall secure the public safety? The answer to
this question will be, Not until the public is a good deal more enlightened upon these matters
than it is now.

